Every sinner is important to God and important to us.  Helping sinners to be reconciled with God and with the members of the community is always a very challenging task, because we are all different and the hurts that we have received, they will prevent us from being open, being receptive. It is easy to talk about forgiveness, but to forgive, it is extremely difficult,

especially forgiveness from the heart.
The fact that every time when we think of this pain and we feel painful and we feel angry, it means to say that we have not really forgive. It is when your heart is no more attached to the pain, when your heart is no more attached to the incident and when you look at the incident, you don't feel pain anymore,

the fact that you begin to praise God and thank God for the event, then you know you have forgiven from your heart. And so long as the heart is not free, it becomes a prisoner of this person who has hurt you,
become a prisoner to the past. And so, to be freed from the past, what must we do?
First and foremost, let us be conscious of our own sinfulness. No one is perfect.
None of us can say we have not hurt anybody. None of us can say we do not need any forgiveness. If you recognise that you are sinner and therefore we are indebted to each other,

then at least you will be able to forgive, because you cannot receive God's forgiveness without forgiving others.
Even if you don't forgive others God still forgives us, but you will not be able to receive His full forgiveness. Because here God is forgiving you, but you can't let go of the hurt that others have hurt you.

So the forgiveness of God is impeded by your refusal to forgive others. That's why in the Lord's Prayer, it says "Forgive us our sins as we forgive those who sin against us".

If we do not forgive others, we cannot forgive ourselves. The forgiveness of God is always there, but it is only effective if you use the forgiveness that you have received to forgive others. Because we are not conscious about our own sinfulness,

then we tend to be judgmental towards others. We tend to condemn others. We tend to look at others with our hurtful eyes.

So we pray that God will give us the grace to come to be more aware of our sinfulness, but more importantly to be aware of God's love and mercy for us. So when we think of how much God has forgiven us in spite of our many times of infidelity, then we use God's forgiveness to heal others. When people hurt us,

that for me also is a time for purification and to offer the pain for our own growth in holiness, and also to help us to identify with the pains of others.

