Yesterday was the feast of Christmas when we celebrate the birth of our Lord Jesus Christ.

And today we celebrate the death of the first Christian martyr.

These two feasts are celebrated side-by-side in order to bring out the outcome of love.

For the sake of the love of humanity, Christ emptied himself, his divinity to become man,

to be one with us and to suffer with us.

And so the response of this love is an invitation for us to also to die with him and for him.

And that is why today the question of celebrating Christmas is how much have we accepted and received the love of Jesus that we are ready to bear witness to that love.

ephen precisely, is the first martyr because he responded to that love totally.

And that is why ephen was ready to die for the Lord.

And for many of us therefore, as we celebrate this feast, we look at ourselves because the call to witnessing to the death of Jesus is not an easy task.

Today in the Gospel, Jesus reminds us that we would be brought before the world to be put on trial.

A Christian is always put on trial when he is witnessing, and therefore the persecution of the Church, which we read during the time of Jesus and the time of the early Church,

continues today.

To be a Christian we must always be ready for persecution.

There will be people who will oppose us and people who would not be happy with the Truth that we proclaim.

The question is - How many of us are ready to stand up for Jesus?

How many of us are ready to die for Jesus?

Christianity is really more than just having a good life.

Christianity is live a life of freedom, a life of truth.

So it is important of us therefore, that during this time, we are called to deepen our love for the Lord, to continue to contemplate on his love for us.

So that we too, may acquire the same attitude of love.

And that is why with ephen, he was so filled with the Spirit that his life mimicked and folllowed the life of Christ.

The way he looked at his enemies, the way he forgave them, the way he prayed for them,

the way he died.

Exactly parallel to the life of Jesus.

The truth is that a person who has been influenced by the Lord would be able to surrender that life So let us pray that we may be like ephen,
ready to offer our life as a service to our brothers and sisters, and most of all, because He has first loved us by becoming a man and then dying for us.

Amen

