Today, the scripture readings invites us to reflect on the three levels of human relationship. The first level of human relationship is a blood relationship when we consider all those people who are related to us by blood because of biological ties. And it is often said that blood is thicker than water.

Is it true? When it comes to blood ties,
these are the people that get our attention first. And sometimes it's ironical because they are not necessary people who are the closest to us. In fact,
sometimes these are the people that give us the most headache and the most heartache in life. But because of blood ties, there is a certain obligation. These blood ties comes together with a "soul tie", so to speak. When you talk about biological relationships, it goes together often but not always, some "soul ties", emotional ties. That closeness intimacy the mother has with the child, that strong bond, it's not just blood ties but there is also emotional bond. Emotional ties sometimes can be even stronger than biological ties, especially in terms of friendship. You need to bring your biological ties, emotional ties together with the spiritual tie. So that is why faith is very important. It is your faith that binds the family close together. Without faith, if you depend on emotional ties alone, you are not going to go very far because, you know, our love is very conditional, very limited and sometimes ignorant. So with a spiritual tie,
together with your children,

grandchildren together, all come to the same faith, come to the same love for Jesus, then we can speak about forgiveness, tolerance and the values that are there.

So, without the spiritual ties you will find that emotional ties will break down,

and biological tie is almost useless. So this evening, let us pray that these three levels of relationship; we need to underscore the importance of these three levels, but especially to ground it in faith. And that's why the most beautiful gift you can give to your children, to your loved ones is the gift of faith. Because with the gift of faith, we can always forgive, we can always start again.

Then at least we know that we are all journeying there together. Yes, we are human beings, we are weak, but at least we know that we can move together. And if we fail, we are always ever ready to forgive.

