All of us, we are called to be stewards of God's gifts and God's grace. And therefore it is important how we discharge our responsibilities according to what the Lord has blessed us with.
So it is important that in our stewardship, we are all accountable to those in charge over us. We have different levels of accountability. And it's important therefore that if we want to be effective stewards, the first thing we need to know is the vision of the mind of the master that we are serving.
Before we begin to serve, we need really to understand the vision and the mission of the organization and of the leader. And as stewards, our task is to align ourselves and to support the vision because you are not your own masters. We are all subordinate to someone above us. If you join an organisation that you don't believe in, you don't subscribe to the vision, the mission, you don't subscribe to the mind of the leader, then strictly speaking, for the good of everyone, you should resign. It is also important to recognise that stewardship calls for responsibility. If we are irresponsible then others will suffer on our account. I always make a distinction - area of influence / area of concern. If it is your area of concern, you can express it. And if you express it,  your responsibility is done.
Before the eyes of God, conscience is clear. If the organization goes to the drain, it is not your responsibility. You have done what you should in expressing your concern.

But influence, it depends on who is in charge. So in life, don'ake upon responsibility that are not yours. We must be grateful for the gift of stewardship.

If the Lord has appointed us for a task,
He has a purpose for us.

It's a calling. It is a vocation.
We should never worry about the next level. We should never worry about our promotion. If you do your work well, you will be recognised. If you are a good workers, everybody will value you. If we are just focused on our employment, on what we do and we do it well,

naturally we will make progress. And the time will come when we will have to assume leadership.

And this is where we can truly say to ourselves that we have been good stewards of God's grace.

