So what is it therefore that prevents us from welcoming the Lord into our lives?

Today, the Scripture readings makes it clear the Lord wants to enter into our hearts, He wants to bring joy and life to each one of us.

But because of our sin,

that hinders the Lord from coming.

We should never say that the Lord is absent.

It is because we are absent,

we are the ones who prevent the Lord from entering into our hearts. He's the one like a beggar standing at the door, knocking at the door of our hearts. So the question is, "Are our hearts open to welcome the Lord?"

So that He can dine with us,

so that He can celebrate life with us.

The only way we can welcome the Lord into our lives is when our hearts are disposed,

when we are at peace.

Sin blind us to His presence. That was what happened to Zacchaeus.

Zacchaeus was not only short,

like me, he was also short-sighted.

He can't see the Lord Jesus.

He can't see what was really important for him in life. He was chasing after the world.

Although he had plenty of money,

he was not a happy man.

Something was missing in his life.

Not only because of sin that prevents us from welcoming the Lord. It is also because of sin that very often we lack zeal in our faith,

we lack motivation in our work.

The Lord reminds us of this danger of complacency.

Complacency that results in self-sufficiency.

We just take care of ourselves.

Today we are called to learn from Zacchaeus.

Zacchaeus was a really a man.

He was desperate. He was looking for something.

Zacchaeus was a man who was desperate.

Are you desperate for God?

Are you desperate to find fullness of life? If you are complacent,

if you are lukewarm, then nothing is going to change.

Zacchaeus was searching for something. And when you are looking for something more,

you become creative.

He took initiative. He was short. He did not say,

"Jesus passing by, but I'm so short.

It'o crowded. I can't see Jesus, let me go back home and sleep. Forget it. Don't waste my time."

No. He climbed up the tree. That's why people

– full of initiative. If you are in love,

if you are convicted, full of initiative. It's not to say that God doesn't provide, it's because we do not take initiative.

When I think of this, I am reminded of the man who was paralysed.

Brought before Jesus, how to bring to Jesus?

The house was crowded and they opened the rooftop.

Very creative!

For many of us, cause of complacency and lukewarmness, "Bishop, [I] cannot do it.

This thing cannot do, that thing cannot do."

It's because we lack creativity.

Because if you are in love, you are always resourceful.

Zacchaeus showed he was creative and because of that, he was rewarded with great joy.

Transforming. Love is always transforming.

If there is no love, there is no desperation for that joy, then it will not transform us. So today, let us learn from Zacchaeus that we should be excited and most of all that we are ready to welcome Jesus into our lives, so that our lives can be transformed like his.

