When we are in leadership, when there are younger people who are working with us,

there's the necessity to be sensitive and the necessity also to be open to what they have to share with us. So we should never feel diffident whoever we are because at the end of the day, it is not just our age that counts. It is not even our experience. What is important is that we must be confident of what we are saying.

We must be clear of what we are saying.
We must be convinced of what we are saying. And if we ourselves are convicted of what we believe in, there is always a way for us to present our thoughts, to present our ideas, so that people who are receptive, they can listen to us and they can be inspired. I don't feel that it is the right thing that just simply because we are young and therefore we are not able to contribute. So I think this is a question of self confidence as well. Of course sometimes, the older generation can make a young person feel diffident because of the authority and experience. And so also in the same vein, I think it's important for those of us who are in older leadership to feel with others and to feel also with the younger people. So what matters and what counts at the end of the day in terms of leadership is our conviction and the way we live our life.

And it is a life of compassion, a life of empathy. So I always believe that as a leader, eventually the only way we can command respect is how we behave towards others, how we treat others and how we show in our actions and words, having the mind of Christ, bringing the community together. So do not allow, therefore,
age or experience to delimit what we can do. And so both ways, I think it takes both ways to really make leadership work.

Young people need to offer themselves,
their ideas. The older generation, they need to be receptive. They need to be encouraging. They need to listen, so that together we can truly do what is good for the community. Because young people,

they understand the needs of their own peers at their age ,which the older ones are not able to make the connection.
Because at the end of the day, we are serving a large community. We got the young, we got the elderly, we got the old. And this is where all leaderships, when we bring them together,
it can be used for the greater glory of God.

