For all of us in life, when you have to make difficult decisions, it is always a calculative move because we are, most of the time, creatures of comfort. We don't like to take risks, we don't like to change very much. Although we all say we want excitement but actually we want routine. And so, many of us are not willing to take that kind of risk because we do not know what we are entering.

As it is said, the fear of the unknown is more feared than the known. So even though we might not be happy where we are, we choose to stay because we do not know what is ahead of us. So, play safe.
And at the same time, we are not happy.

And that is the reason why when we have to make such important decisions in life, we need some assurance from God. So,
assurance is important. We all need assurance. Even though having the assurance of God is one thing but God's assurance doesn't mean to say it's going to be a smooth journey. God's grace does not prevent us or does not take us away from the trials and tribulations of the journey that we take.
At every step in our life, we'll always face challenges and difficulties. We are not perfect and also dealing with people is never an easy task. And so, this is where we need to trust God and to allow God to work in our lives, to unfold His plans for us. God's grace means also our cooperation. It means that we need to work at it. We need to cooperate. We need to allow God to unfold His plan in us. We need to be patient. God's plan will not happen overnight. Maybe somebody else will fulfil it. Some of us, we plant the seed but someone will reap. It's not important. It's not important which part we are in. It's important that at this present time, we are cooperating our best. And I think this is where the meaning and the happiness in life is all about. Giving ourselves completely to the grace of God that works in us, so that at the end of our journey, we can say we have done our part. We have not, so to speak, been irresponsible. We have given our best and our best is the best. There is no other better thing. Your best is your best. No regrets. And we can depart from this world, whichever comes earlier, in peace.

