Who is Jesus?

That's the most important question.

Because the whole season of lent,
is to help us to come to the conclusion - which is what Easter is all about.

Jesus is our life and our resurrection,
and Jesus therefore is the son of God.

Until we come to that conclusion,
we fall short of our profession of faith.

Jesus said "I tell you most solemnly,
before Abraham ever was, I am"

"I am" of course we know is Jesus'
participation in the divinity of his father.

So, in other words, Jesus is really the fulfillment of the covenant that God had for all eternity with us.

In the first reading in the book of Genesis,
we are told that God made a covenant with Abraham.

That he will be a father of a multitude of nations,

and that his decedents after him will be in perpetuity,

generation after generation.

So how could this covenant that God promised to Abraham be fulfilled?

It can only be fulfilled in Jesus, because Jesus is the one who will ensure that the covenant, that the Davidic dynasty will be continued in us.

So the generations of people would include all the gentiles and we know that we are all by virtue of baptism, we have been made kings,
priests and prophets.

But how could this come about?

This would come about only if we have faith.

So that is the reason why today,
Abraham is presented to us as the model, the father of faith.

And so, again Abraham had a foretaste of the resurrection.

Issac's life was saved - as if he came back to life, because he was supposed to be offered.

And so, that is why you know,
when the Lord said your father Abraham rejoiced to think that he would see my day,
he saw it and was glad.

It was already in anticipation.

But Jesus' passion, death and resurrection is what ultimately that saved us.

And so that is the reason why, Jesus is really the completion of and fulfilment of the covenant.

And in that sense, today as we prepare ourselves for the feast of the resurrection - his passion,

death and resurrection.

Then again we are asked
"Will we surrender in faith?

Will we learn to let Jesus' word live in us?"

Because if the word of Jesus lives in us,
we will never see death.

This is not to say that we will not die.

Anyone who lives the life of Jesus, never dies.

Because 'death' is only a physical death.

Actually the real death is the death to one'oul.

When you have no meaning, when you have no purpose,

when you feel life is hopeless, when you are full of anger, bitterness, unforgiveness.

That is what makes life miserable.

So if you want to live happily, just live the life of Jesus, let His word live in you

