In the face of the Risen Lord, in the face of the fact that we now know Him as our Lord and Saviour, we need to repent of our own ignorance, of our own faults and turn to Him because He is our Lord and Saviour. And so how then do we help people to encounter the Risen Lord?
The first way is to conscientise them.

It is our sins that prevent us from encountering the Risen Lord, especially the sin of pride, the sin of arrogance.
Many people cannot encounter God because their hearts are numbed.
We are living in the age not of immorality, but in an age of ammorality.
And this is the real danger. People cannot encounter God because they are in sin and yet they do not know. So this is the real scourge of today's world.
Relativism. To numb the conscience of every human person to what is right and what is wrong. Theology is defined as faith seeking for further understanding.
Without faith, no understanding. A person first must have faith and then theology is to help the person to strengthen the faith, to help the person to understand more. The best way to bring people to Jesus is not through intellectual argument. That can help for those who have faith. But first you must first fall in love with Jesus. To encounter Jesus, the Risen Lord, you need to have love. If you are not receptive to love, you cannot encounter.
And this is true. Even to encounter the Risen Lord in the lives of our brothers and sisters, it's actually love. When you love then you tend to think good of the person, you think positive of the person.

That is what love does. That is why it is our sinfulness, our lack of love that blinds us from seeing the Risen Lord. Not just the Risen Lord himself but the Risen Lord in others. The other way to encounter the Risen Lord is through miracles. Encountering God's mercy, signs of healing, of deliverance, And all these signs will confirm that Jesus is the Risen Lord. How do we make Jesus, the Risen Lord present? Are we signs of God's miracle in our life. If you want to help people to encounter Jesus, it's not what we say. It's the little things we do, the little actions of love. Especially people who have left the Church, people who are so bitter with life,  all they need is someone to say a word of consolation, a word of encouragement, a word of assurance and they will open their hearts to God.

