Many of us, we are not able to accept ourselves,
our weaknesses, our foolishness, the mistakes that we made. And it can be very disheartening,
especially when we try hard and yet again we fall again and again. We are works in progress.
Sometimes, when we are offered responsibility,

we are offered a job, we have to ask ourselves,
can we do it or not? But because of pride,

because of ego, we can. And then afterwards,
they wallow in self pity, they become frustrated,

they become stressed out. When a person is blinded by his ego, his ambition, he does not consider the consequences. And so it is very important therefore in our spiritual journey, in our spiritual struggles, we need to be compassionate with ourselves. We need to be patient with ourselves. And I always believe, those people who are not patient with others when others make mistakes, when others are slow, when others are ignorant,

when others are silly and we cannot tolerate them, it is because we cannot tolerate ourselves.

Anyone who is a perfectionist, means you are not perfect, because we are not meant to be perfect. A perfect person is an imperfect person. And God allows all these challenges and mistakes in order to form us. Not only to form us, but to help us to realise that it is only His grace that we can overcome,
not with our own strength. When we look back at our own life, then we can really thank God for the graces that He has given us. We are what we are today, not overnight. Nobody becomes a saint overnight. It takes time.

It takes a lot of mistakes, a lot of challenges.
But it's part of growing up, because we are works in progress. People can see the glory of God only when God transforms us weak people into strong people. That is why if we are strong, if you are very talented, then there is nothing to praise God. But if we are no good and God has helped us, then we say, "Wow!

How God can work in you!" Without the grace of God, we cannot. But if God has chosen you,

He will qualify you. He will make it possible for you to accomplish your task. And it is with this faith that we can continue to be truly servants of Jesus to the world.

