All of us have dreams in life. And we need to have dreams. Without dreams, we will never be able to make progress in life. Without dreams, we will live our life in a manner that is mediocre. And every one of us must have dreams and it's very important to keep our dreams always alive. And God is the one who is helping us to re-live our dreams. And so, the same thing for this woman who was suffering from hemorrhage for twelve years.
It is terrible because she was not able to participate in the ritual, she was unclean, was not able to mix around, and so her dream was also shattered. And so, it is important for us therefore when our dreams are shattered, how do we respond? Do we give up? And so many of us we are very skeptical. We feel that once our dreams are shattered, there is no way to restore our dreams. And that is never the case. It is the case only for those who don't have faith. So it's important to have faith. Have faith in our dreams, have faith that the dreams can be realised. The moment when we give up and say, "Oh things are not moving,

they are not moving fast enough, not everybody is responding." Then the dream will die. We must have faith. Faith can transform lives and faith means to say,

we allow God to work in us and through us. It's also important, to have faith doesn't mean to say everything will go on smoothly. We just have to trust God, we just have to surrender in faith and the Lord will work through step by step, and the Lord will show us the way and the dreams will be realised.

So let us never give up on our dreams. Let us hold on because God is with us. So prayer is the best way to revive your dream. That's why those of you who do not pray, the dream will die. God comes to talk to us in our prayers. So if you want to keep your dream alive, you need to keep on praying,

keep on reflecting the scriptures and then your dream will always sustain you.

So don't lose your dream. The moment you stop praying, you lose faith and you will lose your dream.

