This life that we live is a life of suffering. This life is really one of purification with some joys, but it is not pure joy. But the point remains is,

how do we overcome and look at our sufferings in a very positive way. We have a purpose. We are sons, we are daughters of God. And God's purpose is that we will be freed from the sufferings of this world. And so our real hope is that one day, we will share the fullness of God's glory, which is total freedom. Ultimately,

you must know whether your suffering is worthwhile. Everyone suffers, but if suffering has a purpose, if suffering is for a greater glory, for a greater good, we do not mind suffering. So in life, the question is what are you sacrificing for?

It's not about suffering. Is it worth sacrificing? And the problem with the world today is because they have no hope for a future glory. They don't believe in eternal life. They don't believe in life after death. For people who don't believe in God, life ends here and now, after the end of this life. If this is just what you are looking for,

there is no purpose. So that is the reason why it's very important, for us Christians,

our hope really is in the fullness of life. We have one eye on this earth working and labouring, the other eye is actually eternity.  So long as you have hope for eternity, we will be able to go through our suffering, and life will always be worthwhile. It is something we must wait with patience. We have to realise that the sufferings we are going through is part of this whole process of growth, of purification. Then we just take sufferings as they come.

Don'ake them too seriously. Sufferings are part of life. You just let come, let go. We learn something from it. We become better and then we let go.
There is no need to dwell in our sufferings all the time and be pessimistic. We have to ask ourselves, are we influenced by the right values? Would you allow evil to grow in you, or would you like goodness to grow in you? So if you allow goodness to grow in you, then your evil, your human weaknesses will become less and less. And that is how we are happy. So we will never be perfect in this life but we are being perfected all the time. We need to be more forgiving towards ourselves. If you really want God to love you, then you must be forgiving because God is always forgiving us.

