Very often in life, we are resentful of the situation that we are in. Ultimately resentful of God because we feel that compared to others,

we are not so intelligent, we are not having good positions in life, we are not so beautiful, we are not rich enough,
others have a better job than us. And so we wonder why God is not fair to us. If we feel that way,

it is simply because we do not understand the mind of God. Whether you are rich or poor, whether you are in a high position or low position, whether you are beautiful or not, these things cannot bring you happiness. God has given us the gift that each one of us needs in life. He doesn't give us things that we do not need for our happiness, for our salvation.

Whatever the Lord has blessed you with, that is where you should be.

Acceptance of God's gifts for us is very important for our own happiness.

Contentment and trusting in God's wisdom is what makes us feel truly happy in life. Not what we own, not where we are,
but just the right place. And that is where God put us where we should be.
Because if we are put in a place where we cannot fulfill that role, we will find ourselves misfits. And that is why we must believe that when God has put us in a certain place, it is always the right place. And this is where we find fulfilment in life, if we explore all the potentials that we have. We are all for each other. The rich are for the poor,

the poor are for the rich, the healthy are for the sick, the sick are for the healthy.
Because it is only when we begin to use what we have for each other, that we will find happiness in life. It is only when you begin to share with what you have,
you become a blessing for others, that you will find happiness. For those who love Him, He will turn everything to our good. And so it is very important for us to thank God for who we are. Wherever we are, you must ask the Lord, how the Lord wants to make use of you. So every position is the right position, if that is the right place for you. You must ask yourself, therefore, where you are, is that where the Lord wants you to be? If that is where the Lord wants you to be, use all your talents, all your blessings, whatever you have to serve Him, and you will find happiness. Don't aim to be at a place where you are not meant to cause of greed, because of your ego. You will find yourself more miserable than ever.

