In today's first reading, the Lord said to Jonah,

"Go to Nineveh the great city and preach to them as I told you too."

And so, reluctantly, he went to Nineveh.

When we put ourselves in the place of Jonah,

we can truly empathise with him,

because the Assyrians, they were terrible people.

They were people who were cruel,

they were harsh, and Israel suffered much from the Assyrians.

And Nineveh was the capital of the Assyrian city.

And so, the kind of enemies, the kind of hatred,

against the Assyrians was deep in the hearts of Jonah and he represents the Israelites.

And so, how can we help our enemies,

how can we love our enemies?

When people have hurt us,

when people have caused us harm,

all we want, is to make sure the offender gets punished,

humiliated, destroyed,

have no face to see anyone again.

That has always been the case.

But, this is not the Christian message.

The Gospel message is always one of forgiveness.

And Jesus always reminds us,

those who have no sin,

be the first one to throw a stone.

Do not judge, and you will not be judged.

For the judgement you pass on to others, is a judgement that you receive on yourself.

Those who lack compassion,

lack forgiveness,

reveal the kind of person they are.

How small you are.

So, how can we in that position,

learn to forgive?

I think it's very important the Gospel wants to tell us,

whether we are good or bad,

God is the Father of us all.

And therefore, because we love God,

we also want to extend our love to our enemies.

When we say loving our enemies means to do good.

To help when it is necessary.

To reach out to them.

Loving your enemies means simply to wish them no evil.

Regardless of our feelings for people. Regardless.

Because the person is in need, we help.

So, I think it is very important for us, to detach our emotions.

Doing good doesn't always need emotions.

Use your will because it is the right thing to do,

not because you feel nice about it. You dont have to feel nice about it.

But, because it is the right thing.

And so today, it is a very important invitation for us to be silent before God.

To learn to contemplate on Him.

To be with Him.

I think it is being with Jesus that will give us the calmness.

Being with Jesus gives us the capacity to love everyone.

To help everyone, regardless of whether we feel for this person, or we don't feel for this person.

We do it because it is the right thing, it is a Christian thing,

it is a good thing. Amen.

