The foundation of Christian faith is not laws. It is not about fulfilling laws because no matter how much we try, we will not be able to fulfill all the laws. Sometimes when we follow the laws, it is also motivated by pride because we are doing all these things as if others cannot do it. So we are always motivated by love, not by the laws. We are always motivated by how much God has loved us in Christ. It is this deep encounter of His love for us, unconditional love that we want to do the same. As we have received, so we give. If a person is not able to give himself or give herself,
the real problem is more than just that the person is selfish, self-centered. I think the real problem is because the person has not yet encountered love in such a way that he understood what love is.
Of course, there are certain issues because of brokenness, because of past hurts, because of past pain. Even when such a person is loved, the person doesn't recognise it as love, even when they have been loved by God in so many ways,
because they are so wounded, because they have been so betrayed. They no longer can see the love of God reaching out to them.

The most important quality of a Christian is a man of compassion because the world has no compassion. The world knows only how to judge,

to condemn, to criticise others, to put people down. And compassion comes from the experience of God's compassion for us. And because we know that we are imperfect, we know that we are sinful,
that is why when others do the same, we will extend the same compassion that we have received. Many of us, if we are unforgiving, it is because we think that we have never done anything wrong. There is no way for us to receive forgiveness if we don't grant forgiveness. When people lack compassion, lack forgiveness,

I think the real reason is they are not in touch with themselves. They are not in touch with their own wounds. They are not in touch with their own struggles. They are not in touch with their own sinfulness. If you are in touch with your own sinfulness, you will never judge. Of course, on the outside they all look good and they look happy but everybody has their struggles. And when you understand their struggles, when you learn to hear them out, then you realise that we all want to be good people. But then sometimes, circumstances cause us to respond in that manner. So if we really want to grow in self-awareness, to grow in compassion, if you realise who you are,
if you are grateful for all of God's blessings He has given to you,  a grateful person is always a thankful person. A grateful person is never jealous. A grateful person is always thanking God for all that he has received. And if we continue to praise God, we continue to thank God, we will become grateful people. Praise and thanksgiving help us to be conscious and grateful of God's blessings.

