Will I be saved? What does it mean for me?
You can know lots and lots about the Church, about God, about the faith, it doesn't mean that you will be saved. Your connection with your family, with your past, with your history, will not bring you to Heaven. It is whether rself are living the life of the Gospel. Just simply because we have certain privileges,  just because we go through certain rituals, just because we are members of a church, is no guarantee that we are saved. We are not saved by good works. Just because you're doing plenty of things for the Church, it does not mean to say that you have faith in Him. The most important thing is relationship. There are many people who try to win salvation on their own strength. Salvation is not using your efforts alone.
Salvation is not just trying to persevere and discipline yourself. The narrow door actually refers to Jesus Himself. So the door actually is not one of struggling. Salvation really is entering into a relationship with Jesus.
It is not good works, it is not efforts. If we have a real relationship with Jesus, then we can enter this door. What is it that actually make people appreciate us? It's not what we do. It's the time we spend with them. The time we talk to them. The time we have fellowship with them. The time when we just sit down and enjoy their company. It's your presence. It's your love.

It is what creates intimacy. It's only when we are in union with God, when we know the Lord is with us, when we start praying to God, then we come to know His will. It is being one with Jesus. It is speaking with Jesus that actually we find strength, we find encouragement. So actually it's the Lord who will justify us. It's the Lord who will make us worthy. So on our own strength, we will never be good enough for God. But precisely because if we love Jesus, if we have a relationship with Him,
He will make us good. So even in our sinfulness, even in our imperfections,
when we know that this is a God who loves us, a God who forgives us, a God who accepts us, this is where we are being transformed. And that is where our salvation lies, purely in His grace and by His grace. And so today, we pray that we will continue to deepen our relationship with Him, never to take for granted, for this is the door in which we are called to enter.

