Most of us, we are insecure. We all want attention.
We all want to be recognised. We all want to be loved. And we always think that we can be loved only if we are good enough to be loved. We need to prove ourselves. And that's the reason why many of us, in order to find our self esteem, we don't look to ourselves.
And simply because many of us do not know who we are. We do not know our identity. The perception of who we are is actually determined by the perception of what people think of us. A person who is always looking outwards for approval becomes a slave to public opinion.
That person can never find stability in life,

will always be restless, will always be insecure.
And that's the reason why when we are insecure,

we become very competitive. And this is dangerous because when we are competitive, we are not thinking of how we can develop ourselves,
how we can explore our potential, how we can tter. But how can we destroy others,
how can we make sure others will not grow,

how can we make sure that others will be deprived and remain where they are. Wanting to be great itself is not a sin. In fact, we all should strive for greatness. We should strive for growth. Each one of us must maximise our potential to the fullest. That is what being a Christian is all about. It is always trying to find means on how can I be a better person. How can I give myself more to society. How can I grow in holiness. How can I grow in love,

in compassion. How can I be of greater service.
So it's about me on how I can develop myself for others. But when it comes to jealousy and envy, it is not about how I can grow,

but how I can stop others from growing. It is not life-giving. In fact, it is destructive.

The person will not grow. The person will become even more petty, inward looking. The person will not find life. So actually when people do well, we should be happy. We should be able to glorify God. And if the person is doing well, then we say we also can do it. We can find inspiration. If only we focus on our own growth, we will achieve our potential.

But if we are always concerned about destroying people, humiliating people, putting them down,

all your energy is wasted on all these negative things. It does not enrich you. It does not bring you life. If only we are conscious of the fact that we are children of God, that is all there is to it. When you are a child of God, you have the greatest honour, the highest dignity. And that is bestowed by God Himself. It is not bestowed by people because if people bestow you an award, they can also take it back. If you are dependant on what people say about you, they will also be able to take away your confidence. But when God bestows the dignity on us, it is given to us forever. So if we are proud of our identity,

then we just develop our potential to be the child of God. So for all of us, to be a child of God means that we are open to growth. We are happy when we see others growing. And we are happy because we know that we too can grow. And that's how life becomes enriching.

So a person'uccess is not a threat to us.
Our talents are also their talents. And that is the reason why a truly great person is always a team player. It's not about himself.

It's not about his organisation. Because if you are truly humble, you are not concerned about yourself. You are not worried about what people say, what people think. If you have done something well, you have done something good, you have helped somebody, people's lives have been changed, the organisation has improved,
that is the greatest award. The greatest reward is the joy to know that you have transformed lives. You have made a difference. What other awards do you want? The other awards are all useless. Because in your own self, you know that you have already celebrated this joy.
And so we pray that we will always do what is good for others and not about ourselves.

