At some time in our life, we will always betray Jesus, sometimes more serious betrayals, sometimes less serious betrayals. But it's important for us to ask ourselves what kind of traitors are we? Not all betrayals are grievous in terms of the sins committed. It depends on why we betray our Lord and how we do it. We are all tempted to sin and sometimes we sin grievously but the problem is when the devil tempt us to sin, he also tries to stir up our pride. When we sin, the devil will remind us that we are useless,

we are great sinners, no one can forgive you, even God cannot forgive you.

And so many people although they are sinners, and God is ever ready to forgive everyone, no conditions, but many people cannot believe that they could be forgiven. Many people could not believe that their brothers and sisters could forgive them and neither God. And so they cannot forgive themselves. That's why many of us, we carry the guilt of our past with us because we find that the sins we have committed, they are so scandalous, embarrassing, so grievous that they could not be forgiven. And so we condemn ourselves. And that is what the devil wants. Actually the devil is not interested to lead us to sin. Leading us to sin is in order that we end up condemning ourselves. Because even if the devil has led us to sin and we ask Jesus for pardon, the devil still has failed in his mission. It is only when we are defeated, not by sin; we are defeated by self condemnation. That is what the devil wants - to condemn ourselves, to take our own lives and destroy us completely.

That is why we have to make a distinction between reactive sin and deliberate sin. Deliberate sins are the real sins that are considered serious or mortal. Reactive sins are sins actually that comes more from weakness, our fear.

Most of the time, we fall into sin not because we planned it but because at the moment of weakness. And so what do we do? We should be open giveness. Even our own sinfulness, they can be a saving grace. To know that we have sin, to know that we have fallen makes us less judgemental, makes us more compassionate, makes us move forgiving, that others too like us,
we are sinners.

Let us continue to hope. Let us never get discouraged, especially when we fall into sin.

Let us also be alert, so that we can withstand the temptations of the evil one and find strength and consolation.

