With the incarnation, the world and God, they are no longer separated. We are one and yet different. And so, it is important therefore that in our relationship with the world, we have the right perspective.
Because there are two extremes. There are those who love the world so much that the world possess them. And there are those who deny the beauty of the world.
The word, "world" has three meanings. The world means, first and foremost, the cosmos, the universe. Then there is another level of the world. When speak of the world, we are referring to humanity, those of us who live in this world. Our response can be positive or negative.

Then there is another dimension of the world. The world here refers to all the worldly things of evil, of selfishness.
This is the world that we are called to avoid. It's important for us that we must bear in mind that the world that the Lord has given to us, this creation is beautiful and we must protect this creation. We must preserve its beauty.
It's not so much climate warming. This isn'he biggest problem. The real problem is that the ecology of the human person is not respected. The ecology of humanity is not respected. The ecology of the family is not respected. It is because man is in disorder. That is why creation is in disorder. Creation is beautiful but man because of selfishness, because of pride,

we just want to have all the things of this world. We just want to satisfy our pleasures. We don't care about the whole of creation. We don't care about others who do not have. It is not about trying to build a beautiful relationship, a relationship that is truly deepen in love, in understanding.

It's not about a relationship that focuses on union of the mind, union of the heart.

It's always about the body. The solution,
really, to love the world requires a proper understanding of ecology. We need to restore the human person. If the human person is restored, if relationships among people are restored, if family life is restored,
marriage is preserved, then the world will not be burning up. It is by turning to God in obedience that we grow.

Let us pray that we'll be wise. Let us pray that our family, our children, our marriages will be strong, so that together we can truly protect humanity.

