My dear friends in Christ, Lord Acton once said, "Power corrupts. Absolute power corrupts absolutely." And this is often the case. That is the reason why those of us who have power and authority, we need to use them well, not for own selfish interest and not for the destruction of people's lives and people's interest. This was the case in today's First Reading from the Prophet Daniel where we had two judges highly respected by society. They were powerful people but they lusted after Suzanna. When they couldn't get what they wanted, they framed her. And not only that, they wanted her to be put to death.

And all those people who listened to the judges, of course listened to them because they were respectable people. My dear brothers and sisters, this is still the case today. Those of us who are rich,
those of us who have positions in life –

there is a great temptation to use them for own interest. This is happening everywhere in the world, not just a corporate world, not just the political world, even in religion. When we think of the scandals in the Church today among the people in the hierarchy, we know that corruption is not just present in the world. The devil is tempting anyone who has power, who has authority.

That is why people they want power.
Power to control people's life. Power to get money. Those who have no power, use money to buy power.

All these manipulation of people's life happen because people misuse power.

And that is the reason why it is really a blessing. Today we speak of good governance. In the Gospel, Jesus said you know, for any testimony to be valid you need to have two witnesses. And so today, in modern society we speak of governance so that we have check and balance. When there is no check, any one of us – you can be a priest, you can be a bishop, you can be a religious – you can be tempted to evil.

This is something we must avoid because Jeremiah tells us in chapter 17 verse 6,

the heart is more devious than anything.
And the devil will do anything to tempt us. But you know, my dear brothers and sisters,

having the right governance is still not enough. Because in the world today, we have many political leaders they are making decisions without wisdom, in ignorance. They are the ones who are advocating same-sex union, euthanasia.

They are the ones of advocating abortion, redefining marriage and family life. They lack the wisdom to make right decisions for the good of the people. Because the decisions the world make, they are just simply based on human reasoning. And today in the Gospel, Jesus said, "I do not judge by human standards," and the truth is people in the world they only judge things by human standards. They are all pragmatists: what is good now. But they don't have the foresight to see the implications, the consequences of the actions they take today, for future generations. That is the reason, why you know, today Jesus said, "I am the light of the world. Anyone who follows me will not be walking in the dark. You'll have the light of Life." And this is why good leaders must be people who love God, who acknowledged God because there is someone greater than us. And for religious leaders and all of us,

those of you in the corporate world, you must read the Bible. You must be attuned with the Word of God. You must be connected with Jesus as the light so that you will be good corporate,
political and religious leaders. We cannot make decisions without first seeking Jesus who is our light. Otherwise even though we try to be objective and fair, we destroy humanity because of our ignorance. Let us pray for wise leaders, leaders with integrity, leaders that are selfless, always putting the interests of the people before their own.

