In the world that we are living in, this is a very difficult world, a very confused world. A world today where there are so many uncertainties. A world that is so divided with so many different viewpoints on every issue, that somehow we are not too sure of where we stand with regards to certain issues in life.

How do we withstand the oppositions of the world? How do we find focus and direction in the midst of changes, in the midst of hostility even? We are called to turn to Jesus who is our rock. If we stand on the rock of Jesus, then of course our faith will stand and our lives will be secured. At least our positions in life will be clear. The foundation is very important. If you don't have a strong foundation, then of course, your views, your positions in life will be weak. For us Christians, our foundation is on Jesus who is the Rock.

So in order for our faith to be firm, then we need to believe that Jesus is our rock.

We need to confess that Jesus is truly the Son of the Living God. If you don't have this faith, then we cannot speak about being true to Jesus. If Jesus is the living God,

then you will accept all that Jesus has spoken to us, all that Jesus has taught us.

We might not understand. We might not agree. You don't have to agree with Him.

In fact, the apostles don't agree with Jesus. But still because He is the Son of the Living God, we take His word for what it is. For us as Catholics, if we hold firm to our faith in Jesus as the Rock by professing the same faith as Peter, by professing our faith in accordance with the Church's teaching, then we can stand firm. Knowing the Rock, knowing the Truth,

knowing the Word of God, we need to act.
Let us pray that the words of Jesus would take root in our hearts. That we will spend time reflecting on the words of Jesus. And most of all, to welcome the Lord into our lives. If lcome the Lord into our lives, there will be peace, there will be joy and happiness. Jesus comes into our life when sin departs. So if there is no peace in your heart, if there is no joy, simply because sins are the ones that are blocking you. So remove the sin and God will become present.

