In the world today, it is very difficult to really promote unity, because of very diverse values. Because of relativism, it is very difficult to say what is right and what is wrong. So when there is no more moral spokesman,
when there is no moral absolutes, there is no more moral truth, and no one knows what is right and what is wrong, how can we ever talk about unity? And so, the only way to promote unity today, you notice, as what the world is saying, we try to create common space.
But this common space is ambiguous. It will change. It is not stable. When we talk about trying to preserve unity in our world today,

we can't even preserve unity in our own families,
with our loved ones. Today with this relativism,

parents have lost their moral authority over their children as well. You can't even tell your children what is right and what is wrong.
It's very difficult, my dear brothers and sisters, to tell you honestly, to be a real Catholic. To stand firm on our values, because there is a price to pay. To tell you honestly,
we choose our spouse, we choose our parents,

we choose our children over Jesus. That's the reality. How many of you would choose Jesus over your children? Because it's too painful. Because the price is too heavy. We are all afraid of suffering. We are afraid of rejection. We are afraid of losing our loved ones. And so we compromise, or at least we keep silent. You know, my dear brothers and sisters, I know it is difficult. And that is the reason why, my dear brothers and sisters,

what can we do? Our hands are tied. We need to welcome Jesus and the prophets in our lives.

We cannot allow the world to overwhelm the Gospel. And so, it is important for us, if the world does not accept the Gospel, what is the reason? It's because they don't understand the Gospel. Jesus did not come to take away our happiness, to destroy our lives. The teachings of the Gospel are meant to help us to live a life of true love and true joy. But do you understand the teachings of the Church enough to be able to explain to the world? To convince the world, the reason for what we believe,
why we believe? The values of the Church are not against society. We are for the culture of love, the culture of life, authentic culture,

authentic love, everlasting love, faithful love. We are not for fake love. We are not for temporary love. Our love is real. That's why the Church insists that we must promote true love, not false love. So, my dear brothers and sisters, will you be a prophet to the world? That is what the Lord is asking of us. Let us turn to the Lord for courage, for strength. Only prayers, fasting, a deeper faith in Jesus will help us to be faithful to the Gospel.

