There are many of us who are not able to encounter the mercy of God. Basically for two reasons. Firstly, those who cannot encounter God's mercy and love, it is because they have been hardened by sins. When someone sins and does not look into himself, after some time, the devil will take over his life.

The devil will condemn the person. The devil will discourage the person from turning to God, especially from praying. The reason why many of us cannot encounter God's mercy is because of the wounds of sin, either from their own mistakes or from the mistakes of their loved ones. And so many are angry with God. Angry with God because either they suffer because of the consequences their sins, or because they suffer innocently because others are not just to them. And that is why God's mercy cannot be received. And the first thing to encounter God's mercy really is to acknowledge our own sins.

Then the second step we need to take is to recognise and accept the consequences of our sin. If we don't accept the consequences,

we will never grow, we will never learn.
So if a person is not humble enough to say that he has caused all this pain and accept sufferings as something positive for his growth, there will be no change. So accepting the consequences of our sin with humility as graces of God for growth. Thirdly, in order to receive God's mercy, we must be able to reflect and to see the mercy of God at hand. If we want to be touched by the Lord, we must understand that God's mercy is greater than our sins. Whenever sin increases,
grace increases all the more. So that is the reason why we need to cling to God's mercy. Every time when we sin, there is also grace. God does not stop giving us grace. He does not stop loving us when we sin. And fourthly, we are told that in order to receive God's mercy, then we must be open to the graces of God. Even when we sin, God is the one who reaches out to us.
God is always reaching out to us, asking us to repent, but we might not be able to hear because we cannot recognise the messages.

One who is forgiven will release others. How do you know that you are healed? When you have no more grudges in your heart. When you have a heart that is free. When you have a loving heart. When you have an empathetic heart. When you have an understanding heart, then you are healed. If you are not, that is precisely because the wounds of your sin are preventing you from reaching out. And it is only when we begin to heal ourselves that we can heal the world.

