The most important quality of a leader in my reckoning, is Humility. There are many great leaders in the world. But because they lack humility, they become arrogant and they become divisive. That is the reason why great leaders must always remain humble in their service, in their leadership. And that is the reason why today you notice that Jesus wants to appoint Peter to be the head of the Church, to be the one who will look after the Church, the test is humility. But you Peter was a proud man. He was an impetuous person. Earlier on at the Last Supper, when Jesus said He was going away, Peter said,

"I will follow you, I will die for you, I will go to prison for you", and Jesus said,

"You will deny me three times before the cock crows." And he was overly confident of himself.

And that is why before St Peter could assume leadership, Jesus wanted to purify him of his pride. Earlier on in this same chapter of St John's Gospel, we have Jesus appearance at Tiberius, at the seashore. And again, St Peter, he was out fishing again and they caught nothing. And Jesus said, "Put out the nets."
and again a reminder to Peter. So when he put out the net, they caught hundred and fifty three big fishes of all kinds. It was again a humbling experience. Reminded St Peter right from the start when he was called to rely on God, not on himself. In leadership, we cannot depend on ourselves. Leadership, we need to depend on God. It is God who makes things work. It is God who makes us fruitful and successful. It is not just our human ingenuity,
our human strength. And so today again in the Gospel, we have St Peter being purified a second time. So, remember there was this charcoal there and there were fish. He said,
"Bring in the fish." The charcoal fire was not a good reminder. Remember it was at the charcoal fire that he denied Jesus three times.

And so Jesus again brought the charcoal before him. This are bad memories. But Jesus' way of healing a person is to go back to the past memories. And to be healed requires that we confront our past. We don't run away. And that is why the charcoal fire again reminded Peter three times he denied Him because of his pride. And so, before the charcoal fire,

Jesus gave him a chance to renew, to heal himself with the three fold love. And yet again, that old man still cannot die in St Peter. So Jesus asked Peter, "Simon, son of Jonah, do you love me?" The word Jesus used to love, means 'agape' love. That means you love Him freely, unconditionally, the way God loves us. And his reply is, "Yes, Lord,

you know I love you." Now, St Peter, this time he had learnt his lesson. When he said,

"I love you", St Peter was saying, "I love you" with 'phileo' or 'philia'. That means with a human love, not a divine love. Because he realised that he could not love Jesus with that divine love that God loves him. He could only respond with a human love. So our love is also conditional in many ways. It's a human love. When I love those who love me, that is a human love. It's only when I love those who don't love me, who don't care for me,

my enemies, that is a divine love. So twice,
Jesus asked him, "Do you love me?" And St Peter said, "You know I love you. I can only love you with a human love. Don't ask too much from me." He learnt his lesson. And Jesus asked him the third time, "Do you love me?".

Now, this time, it is interesting. In the Greek, third time, "Do you love me?", He used the word, 'phileo'. That means do you love me with a human love. And Peter was upset.

He said, "You know I love you." And Jesus said, "Feed my sheep." So you can see how Jesus accepted his inadequate love. And I think it's very important even for us as leaders,

we recognise our limitations in love. And it's good to acknowledge that. So, Peter was upset. It was a part of the healing process to admit to himself that he can only love Jesus that much. And so, it's very important that as leaders, we must take people where they are. And so, this is where recognition of his limitations and Jesus' acceptance of him, will give him that power to lift up.
In fact, at the end of the day, we are told that St Peter followed Jesus to the cross.
It took time for Peter to grow in love. It took time for Peter to grow in fidelity. And so we need to be patient as leaders. There are some people who are a bit slow in responding.
There are some people who cannot love as much as you would desire them to love. And so,
once we recognise our limitations as leaders,

then we will not impose our ignorance on others.
So in daily life as well, in our work as well,

we must know our limits. So this is where as a leader, we need to listen to one another and we need to work together. And this is where we can be truly fruitful in our ministry.

