So long as we are in this life, we will always have burdens. It is how we handle our burdens. All of us have burdens. God knows how much we can carry. God knows how broad our shoulders are. He will give us the right burdens, the amount we should carry. And that is the reason why when we carry the burdens, it is important to know that we don't carry alone. Life is difficult only because we think that we have to carry the burdens all by ourselves. But if there is someone carrying the burden with us, we know that God is especially on our side, then we will not feel so burdened. If we want to implore the help of God to help us carry our burdens, we need to come to Jesus. First, we need to shoulder the yoke of Jesus,

secondly learn from Him. To shoulder the yoke of Jesus, means to carry the yoke with Jesus. So when you carry the yoke with Jesus, then of course the load is shared, the load is lighter. So when Jesus says, "shoulder my yoke", means that we are called to carry our burdens, not alone but always with Him. So when we carry the burden with Jesus, you'll feel much lighter because you can rely on Him and on His strength. To carry the yoke of Jesus means also submission to His will. We just have to follow Jesus. We must align our will to God's will, then we find the yoke easy.

The yoke is difficult only because we are not aligned with Jesus. I always believe that whatever happens to us in our life, it happens for a reason. There is nothing to get too upset, to get excited, or get into depression, just because something has gone wrong, something is not quite right. It is part of life. Sufferings, burdens, they are all part and parcel of our life. Go through life one day at a time, one moment at a time.
If there is a problem, we will try to solve it.

If we cannot solve it, we leave it. It's okay. It doesn't mean to say we will solve every problem. That is ambition, that is ego. We just do our best, that's all.
Secondly, to carry the yoke with Jesus,

it means to say that we must carry with love. The yoke actually refers to the commandments. The spirit of all laws is always for love, for harmony, to help us,

to guide us. It's not to make our life miserable. The laws are meant to set you free. So the question is - Are you aligned with God's will?

Are you in love? Humility is the gateway to find happiness in life and to find comfort.

