So while it is true as Jesus in the Gospel tells that He has come to save us all.
Salvation truly is a gift from God. It is a grace.

That is why there are some people who would know the Lord directly,

some indirectly. Regardless, it is important for us to realise that because salvation is a gift, it also depends on faith. It depends on our response. We need to cooperate with a response. How can we respond to God's gift of faith? We found yesterday in the Gospel that although Jesus performed the miracle of the loaves, many of them still could not recognise Him as the new Moses, as the one who supplies them the bread of life from heaven, the bread that has come into this world. This is where the question of ignorance comes and yet it is more than just ignorance it is simply because many of us we are too proud to recognise that there is someone greater than ourselves.

This is precisely the problem with those people in the world who don't want to accept the power of God. They think they can resolve everything on their own.

So today we are told that Philip went to a Samaritan town and proclaim the Christ to them. Philip went there, the people responded. They heard the message,

they welcomed and because they heard of the miracles he worked and they saw them for themselves. It is important that one of the ways in which we witness to Christ, there must always be this humility to be receptive, to be open. There is always a danger that many of us also, without humility we cannot even see the miracles as signs from God. In fact all of us we encounter miracles in our lives but not everybody ascribed to God. You can have an experience but you must be able to recognise this experience, the message of their experience and the origin of the experience. This is where the people were receptive enough and they came to believe in God. Now there is another way we also bring Christ to others. The devout life of the people were also a source of inspiration.
Sometimes, you know, even in our life persecutions in the Church are not necessarily obstacles to the growth of the Church. In fact, persecution sometimes are necessary to purify the Church.

Even the persecutions of the early Church actually brought about the opportunities for evangelisation.
The whole problem with our church in Singapore, we are so complacent so we don't have that urgency to spread the good news. In life, it is very important, even now as we are facing this complacent church although complacency in our diocese, it's my assessment based on the facts.

But when we see the church packed, you feel that, "Wow the church is really vibrant!" In one sense,

we are, in one sense. But then if you think of the other two-thirds of Catholics and the many people we are called to evangelise, we are not doing our work.

It is very important that sometimes we face the challenges, the challenges should not make us feel discouraged,
should not make us feel disillusioned.

But it means that we got work to do. These are issues so it means to say there is work to be done. In that sense it is a blessing in disguise, when we encounter issues and problems that is where we help the Church really to grow. My task as the Bishop actually, I need to tell people the reality also, so that when people don't fall into complacency then we will begin to evangelise.
Otherwise what is happening in our churches, there is the danger, a temptation, to just maintain the church,

just maintain the people coming for mass so long as they are coming for mass, there is donation, the church can be maintained, choirs and everything seems to be moving – that's good. How many people are converted doesn't matter, just know so long as the Church is packed. This is where the question of the witnessing of the people. Then, of course, we are told that not only the people went to other places to witness,
we are told the Apostles are stayed behind.

So this is where again witnessing: first,
we need to have good Christians who are ready to stand up for Jesus. But there is also the other aspect: is the question of the witnessing of the Apostles. The Apostle stayed back, they didn't flee from the country because they provide stability to the church in Jerusalem.

They were not cowards. They stayed back to fend for the sheep that stayed behind.

This is very important because at the end of the day,

it's not enough just to have devoted, passionate,

lay Catholics, the leaders have to set an example. Leaders have to show the way,

leaders have to be passionate, leaders have to be the one that will continue to provide stability, growth, formation. We pray that the church will also grow, like the early church whether through witnessing of Catholics, whether through persecutions and challenges or we pray for good leaders in our church, lay leaders and especially priests and religious so that they can continue to provide the momentum and the inspiration for other Catholics to really bring Christ to the world.

