It is important for us to take note that the sin of greed,

ultimately is also called the sin of idolatry. So, actually at the bottom of the sin of idolatry it's not so much the idols. It's the worship of self.

St Paul makes it clear, "Those who long to be rich,
they are a prey to temptation they get themselves into all sorts of foolish dangerous ambition leading them into sin and destruction". In the modern world today,
what is the greatest form of idolatry?

This time in the form of secularism,
relativism, materialism, who are we worshipping again? Men. We know everything. The human person today has made himself his own God. And this is where the world is moving. That is why today in the scripture readings, we are told that, it is important therefore, St Paul says

"This is what you are to teach the brothers to believe and to persuade them. Anyone who teaches anything different and does not keep the sound teaching, which is that our Lord Jesus Christ, is simply ignorant and full of self-conceit." So, the way to move ahead to help our people to be alert to the traps of the evil one.

The second thing we need to do is to teach our people contentment and again St Paul today precisely in the first reading warns us, that those of us who are discontented with our life especially tempted to money then it causes a lot of issues. A man who is contented realize that you know money is important of course but money is only a means it's not the end itself. When we recognize the shortness of our life then we know that glory power and wealth do not last. That's why St Paul was a man who was always contented. Happiness is not how big the house you stay.
How big a car you drive. Happiness is not a position you have. And the third thing is service. Getting to know Jesus. It is also interesting that in today's Gospel who are those people who followed Jesus,

they came from all classes. Anyone who loves Jesus, we forget our position so long as we love Jesus, we all will work together for Jesus. Love helps us to transcend our positions in life because it is all for the common love of the Lord. And finally we are told the only way we can overcome the sin of idolatry is to fight the good fight of the faith and win for yourself eternal life. At the end of the day, we have to realize that our life here on earth is short. There is also the life that is to come. So, it is this hope of the life that is to come, that St Paul gave himself wholeheartedly.

Contentment, focus on Jesus and most of all believing that the life we live today is a preparation of the life that is to come. Amen.

