Many parents, unfortunately, always fail to realise this. Our children are not our property.

They are just entrusted to us. We are the guardians. We are like Saint Joseph who watch over Jesus. They don't belong to us. We cannot make use of them as we like. Our duty as parents is to make sure that these children will truly become children of God. That is the task of parents. It is not for you to possess them. That's why when parents possess their children as if they are gods, they will get into trouble. Because when the children grow up, when the children have their own life, when the children need to undertake a vocation like joining the priesthood, then you might think twice.
But this is not your property. As parents,

our task is to help them to find a vocation, help them to serve God. That is our first duty. And you, in helping your children to find God and to serve God,

you also fulfill your vocation as a mother. And this is true even not just for children, even husband and wife.
We are not each other's property. We are called to help each other to become the child of God that we really are. So it's good to bear in mind, firstly we are just stewards, we are guardians. Like that, you will not possess them. Like that, when your children are grown up, you can let them be free. And you are happy for them because they are fulfilling their vocation in life. Do you prepare your children just for life on this earth? Or do you know that the ultimate destiny is life in Heaven? That is our destiny.

So many parents today are more concerned about preparing their children for life here on earth. They want a good job,
plenty of money, beautiful house,

beautiful car. You don't prepare them just for this life on earth.

Are you preparing them for the life hereafter, and that is eternity? This life is so short. And so if you are thinking of eternal life, life to the fullest, then this is a passing world. And that is why we cannot cling. We cannot cling to our spouse, we cannot cling to our children. This is part of growing up. This is part of the journey. So we have to ask ourselves, am I really preparing them for eternal life?

Will they, at the end of the day, reach Heaven? They can be very successful in this life. They live for themselves.
They care for themselves and they won't reach Heaven. metimes our children lose faith, it is because we parents, we are not exemplary in our faith. So it's a question of parents not just only being mentor of faith but really living a Christian life, a loving life, parents loving and caring for one another, forgiving one another, encouraging one another,

uplifting one another, showing our children how to forgive, how to love, how to make sacrifices. This is what inspire our children in faith. What we do as mentors,

actually, will help our children to deepen their faith life.

We have been given talents. We need to use them. We need to explore. We need to maximise. So as parents, what do you do? You help your children to maximise their potentials. That is what we are called to do. At least your conscience is clear. At least you know you have done your best. And the rest, we just continue to pray for them and leave them to the grace and mercy of God.

