My dear brothers and sisters. all of us, we are fellow workers of the Lord.

We are sent into the vineyard in order to bring the Gospel to all men and women.

We would have been chosen by the Lord. We would have received Him. We are responsible for the grace that we have received. Sometimes many of us are apparently doing good works. Unfortunately, sometimes we do not present ourselves as witnesses of Christ and we hurt people.
That is why many people leave the Church because we are discredited as God'ervants. People expect us, who are Catholics,

and more so if we are involved in the Church, and those of us who are leaders,

people are looking for witnesses. So we must remember that we are all ambassadors of Christ. Wherever we are,
people are watching us, looking at us to see whether we live up to what we claim to believe. And it is always because of our own witnesses that we bring discredit to Jesus. There are many people who have given up on the Faith, have left the Faith because of the way we conduct ourselves. So it's good, my dear brothers and sisters, to be conscious that you are an ambassador of Christ. If you are rude to your staff, you shout at them, you scream at them, you treat your staff badly, it's a bad reflection of Christ. A good steward of God is one who is ready to suffer. A good steward is always self-sacrificing,
putting others before ourselves. That is what a steward of God is all about. It is not about ourselves. A good leader is one who live in holiness. We are called to live the life of the Spirit. A good leader is one who is equanimous.

That is to say, not to worry about whether people like us, whether we are popular not, or whether we are successful, so long as we do the right thing.
A leader must forgive. How can you proclaim the Gospel when your heart is bitter? You can't bring the joy of Christ.

If you are a bitter person, everybody you see, you see with your wounded eyes. You become vindictive and revengeful. A leader who cannot forgive cannot lead.

A leader always goes beyond his duty.
Someone asks you to walk one mile, you walk two miles. So we pray for God's grace to be able to preach the Gospel fearlessly and selflessly.

