and indeed we are told that Moses exercised great leadership. He was the one who brought the Hebrews out of Egypt and then form them 40 years in  the desert to be a strong army. He was forming them in faith -  how to surrender, how to trust in God, how to obey God. He give them the commandments. He gave them all the guidelines on how they should live their life together so they could build a community. And of course we know the people of Israel they were always rebellious. So, Moses was certainly a great leader and yet the greatness of Moses was not simply because of the way he led the people, more importantly, Moses...

he recognized his limitations and Moses was really a humble man, he was a humble leader. He knew his weaknesses, that's why when the God called him to serve he told the Lord I'm not the worthy one I'm not eloquent I cannot lead the people out. But he was obedient. So Moses was able to accept, you know, whatever the Lord decide for him. It was not about himself, it was about what God wills for the people. He was able to let go - he knew that he would not be the one leaving the people into the Promised Land.

He trained up Joshua - he prepared for a transition of leadership. And so for us too therefore we have to ask ourselves in terms of leadership, as we grow older it's very important therefore, we need to exit gracefully - we need to be generous,

we need to be courageous, to allow the younger generation to take over so that the organization can grow, the community can grow - we don't want to be the obstacle of growth in any organization.
That would be about "myself",

it's not about the people that we are leading. So, it's very important to ask ourselves all the time "Am I an asset or a liability?" I think this is where a leader must be humble enough to recognize yourself and magnanimous enough to be able to allow for the younger leaders to take over. So a good leader must always be on the lookout, you know... as we are doing our work we are also on a lookout to see who can take over. Who can do a better job. So a good leader therefore will allow the younger generation take over but he will be there helping, encouraging and offering fraternal correction. This fraternal correction is not to put the person down and it is very important again in leadership that we don't ever put our members down. Fraternal correction is done to boost up the person, to strengthen the person, to help the person become better and not become worse. So it's very important because that's why Jesus says when you have a problem with someone take the person aside, not in front of everybody. We don't do correction in front of everybody and so its about taking a person aside, talk nicely to the person try to discuss and then we try to find a solution. We pray that we can truly be great leaders and form leaders for tomorrow.

Amen.

