So today we read about the first missionary journey of St Paul, and it is good for us to take note that the first mission of the Apostles, they were all inspired by the Holy Spirit, motivated by the Holy Spirit. They were people always listening closely, attentively to the prompting of the Holy Spirit. And yet, it is true that the mission is planned by the Holy Spirit. It was not planned by men, it was really planned by the Holy Spirit. And they went forth, but that doesn't mean to say they did nothing. I think what is important is that although we are being led by the Holy Spirit and we should be led by the Holy Spirit, not just by our own ingenuity, but being led by the Holy Spirit means to say we must also seize the opportunity when it comes. And it is very important because for many of us, actually the Holy Spirit is leading us, is prompting us, is inspiring us.

Unfortunately, we are not so attentive to the promptings of the Holy Spirit in our lives inviting us to respond to His grace and so we find that again in today's First Reading, Paul and Barnabas they were invited to the synagogue and after the synagogue, the presidents of the synagogue asked them: "Would you like to address some words of encouragement to the congregation?" Immediately, Paul stood up, held up his hand for silence and began to speak. So when the opportunity was there, immediately he ceased it. So you can say that again,

St Paul, he was not only sensitive to the Holy Spirit,

he was also sensitive to the audience,
this audience that he was speaking to.

And therefore, this audience would have great attachment to the Old Testament, to the history, to the traditions that they were formed. And so St Paul used all these traditions and helped them to see how these traditions culminate and are fulfilled in Jesus. Again, today in the gospel, we have Jesus also doing the same thing.

He washed the feet of his disciples and he just celebrated the farewell meal for the disciples to anticipate his passion, his death and resurrection.

He took the occasion when he celebrated the farewell meal to wash the feet of the disciples, in order to help them to celebrate what his whole life was all about.

His whole life was of giving, obedience,
humble service to his Father and to his fellowmen. And the washing of feet was really a very concrete application of what the Eucharist is all about.
The Eucharist which he celebrated was a celebration of his passion, death,
and resurrection. But this is expressed concretely in the form of service. It is not just dying to self, but it is dying for the service of others. Our takeaway this morning when we reflect on the Scriptures, is:
Are we alert to the signs of the time?

Jesus said in today's gospel, "Now that you know this, happiness will be yours if you behave accordingly." If we respond to the Lord's invitation, if we learn to cease the opportunities, and we have plenty of opportunities actually.

You notice that when St Paul was asked by the presidents of the synagogue,

the presidents of the synagogue said to him, "Can you address some words of encouragement to the congregation?" So what people actually need today,

in this world, more than anything else, is encouragement. We need people to encourage because we know that our lives are difficult, we know sometimes we are failures, we know we make mistakes in life, sometimes we fall into sin. Not that we want to, but we are weak.
This is where we need to give encouragement.

metimes you know, a word of encouragement, that's all we need. Sometimes, people need something to give them some hope for the day. The Responsorial Psalm says, "I will sing for ever of your love, O Lord; through all ages my mouth will proclaim your truth." And that is what we are called to do – sing forever of the love of God in our life,

to give encouragement, to give hope to people.
And when we do that,

of course, we find happiness ourselves.
So actually when you learn to inspire people, you inspire your own life as well. Amen.

