Jesus was not just concerned about having followers. Jesus wants disciples.

We have many Catholics who are baptised but they are not disciples. Doesn't mean you're baptised you are guaranteed of a place in Heaven, unless you are disciples. Everyone who commits sin is a slave. So, are you a slave or are you a son, a daughter of God? You can be a Catholic but you are still a slave. How then do we know we are saved? When we are able to do it out of love, not out of fear. Out of love for God, then we are children of God. How do we know that we are really children of God? When we know the Father. So, if you truly believe in the Father, you must believe in Jesus because He is the revealer of the Father. To reject Jesus is to reject the Father because Jesus is the personal representative of the Father.

So, the condition therefore that you really say you are Catholic is if you accept Jesus. If you believe that Jesus is the Son of God then you'll be able to commit your life to Him. Otherwise you cannot.
Because there are many things that Jesus teaches that we don't understand.
Many Catholics leave the Church. Why?

Because they cannot accept some teachings. Many people leave the Church because they cannot accept certain teachings of the Bible, because they don't understand. But if you love Jesus, if you have faith in Jesus, even you don't understand, because He is God,
because He says so, I accept. The trouble is that today the world, if they don't understand,
means it's not real. Why? Their faith is an intellectual faith. Their faith is based on their human logic. It's not based on faith. Faith means you trust.
Disciples are those who are every day with the Word of God,
reflecting in the Word,

growing timacy with Him, growing in relationship with Him. Then you can be strong in your faith. If you are a disciple, you are free because you begin to share the mind of Jesus, share the heart of Jesus, share the life of the Father. And then we will be able to withstand all challenges. And this faith comes only because we know Jesus, we submit to Him, so that we too can find life.

