In the first reading,

we are told that Jonah was very indignant.

He fell into a rage and then God gave him a castor-oil plant for his shade.

And God said,

"Are you right to be angry, with the Ninevites, with the castor-oil plant?"

So what was his problem?

His problem was that he's really upset.

He cannot accept the realities of life.

He cannot accept that he has deep anger with the Assyrians, with the enemies.

And he was taking out on God.

Now, those of us who are in that kind of rage,

always angry and upset.

I think it is very important, the first thing we need to do is to try to find what is actually causing us to be angry.

Especially when it is out of proportion.

So, it is first and foremost, our own hurts and wounds.

If you cannot accept your own sinfulness and your own weaknesses,

then you tend to be very harsh.

Some are over-obsessed, every little thing is always condemning,

actually, it is a problem.

Because these are things that they cannot handle in their own life, deep inside it is there.

And so, they are actually projecting their fears because they are afraid that if they look into themselves and to realise that they are no better than others.

They will lose self-confidence.

So, this is where the first thing we need to do for healing is to be in touch with ourselves to heal the wounds.

Secondly, we are called to provide a solution,

don't be a problem.

Always ask yourself, are you a solution or are you a problem?

When you start scolding the person and putting the person down,

now you become another problem.

So, Jonah instead of being a solution,

he was a problem.

He was creating one problem after another problem to himself and to others.

And finally, we are told that in this whole process of healing,

the Gospel reminds us,

when we pray the Lord's prayer,

we pray forgive us our sins,

as we forgive each one who is in debt to us.

So that's why at the end of the day, it's this consciousness of our own need,

to be forgiven.

The sins of others. That we can accept others.

And that we can forgive.

And we pray that we can enter into that kind of compassion of God because it is in understanding who we are,

in forgiving others,

that we really forgive ourselves. Amen.

