There are two ways to bring fire to this earth.
One is by destruction, the other is by love and purification. The world is moving towards its own destruction. The world is being burnt out by fire, so to speak. We know the situation of climate warming. Ozone layer being depleted because man has no respect for nature, for creation. Wildlife is destroyed. Animals are destroyed. The real problem is not environmental ecology. Environmental ecology is the lack of family ecology. Ecology of the family is the centre of everything. When you talk about the ecology of the family, you are speaking about husband and wife coming together in mutual giving to one another, and so produce children and provide the environment for holistic upbringing. But today, because the family ecology is fragmented, we cannot give holistic formation to our children anymore. And then when our children are not well raised in love,

in respect, this is where we find the reasons for the lack of respect for creation. Creation,

like the human body, is a gift from God. But if we do not accept it as a gift, we think we own our bodies, then we begin to abuse our bodies. But if you receive the body as a gift from God, when it is a gift, we treat the gift with respect, with love. And if we don't respect our own body, why should we respect the bodies of others? Environmental ecology is a consequence of the lack of family ecology. The way to bring about restoration of creation is through purification. In other words, the message of truth has to be proclaimed.

Environmental ecology is the result of lack of respect, of greed, selfishness. All in terms of economics. How much money can the company make. That is why Jesus' coming is to purify the world, to enlighten the world in the truth. So the question is, are we ready to accept the Word of God to guide us in the truth? We can change the world by our love.

If truth cannot convince them, love is the best truth. So at the end of the day, it's our perseverance in love. With love, with patience, with your own example, you will be able to at least fire them up with love.

