When we are powerful, when we hold high offices,
when we have made a name for ourselves, when we think we have plenty of money, we become very arrogant. We think so highly of ourselves because we have made it. And we lose respect for God, for the sacred. Because we think that we have all the powers in this world to do whatever we want. This is the whole problem of the arrogance of man. They become insensitive to what is sacred and what is right and what is wrong. If we find that today because of science and technology, they think that they have all the powers to change the world. They think everything can be resolved just by science and technology alone. And so they think that technology is power. They think that we do not need God to resolve all our issues in life. They think that knowledge alone can resolve all the difficulties of life. They say those people who worship God are simply superstitious because God is just something that we try to fill the gaps in our lives. This also explains sometimes even believers are afraid to identify themselves as believers of a particular religion for fear of being ridiculed. We have to ask ourselves,

is the world becoming a better place? Is the world more united today? Those people who use technology and so on, can we say that we are safer? We are not safer. In fact, today the world is even more insecure, uncertain than at any other time. Is the world really becoming more united, more loving, more compassionate,
more caring? We see all the counter signs that the world is now rather confused. There is no more morality in this world. Everybody is for himself. Everybody is about trying to enjoy life as much as he could on this earth. We know that humanity is destroying itself, whether it's climate warming and all these other things. But you notice the world does not pay attention. The world still wants us to believe that this is the way. Jesus reminds us that those of us who stand up for the truth, those of us who bear witness to Him, we too will be persecuted. What should we do? We need to keep on speaking about the truth. We need to keep on conscientising people.

We need to continue to give Him witness, so that we can save ourselves and save the world that is ours.

