We don't like laws and rules. We don't like to be disciplined. And so, it is always in us to rebel against laws from young. In a world of relativism, they do not want to be imposed by people in any way. So relativism means that you are free to choose whatever you want to do, without sometimes consideration for the greater good and for the community. But the truth is that the laws are good.
The laws are meant to help us, to guide us in life. The laws are not meant to take away our freedom.

The laws are meant to give us greater freedom. The laws are meant to make us more alive and not to rob life away from us. So it is a question at the end of the day of perspective. How do we see the laws? If you are just observing the laws for the sake of observing them blindly without understanding, then of course the laws become a burden. When people break the laws, they are more to be pitied than to be blamed. Laws actually is based on experience. So it is very important, therefore, that only a right understanding of the laws can empower people and can set people free.
If you don't put God as the centre of your life, then you become a slave to all the transitory things of life. So idolatry is always a temptation for men. Idolatry is to make something that is finite,

something that is transitory,
something that is transient,

as if it is something eternal. God is someone that you cannot completely possess. And that is why only God can fulfill us. All the things in this life, you can possess, but the moment you possess, then you feel empty. Because nothing on this earth can satisfy us.
The Bible tells us, God is a jealous God. God is jealous because He is afraid that we will choose the wrong things, that kind of jealousy. Jealous for your sake, not for His sake, but He is jealous for you in the sense that He is protective of us. That is why we say God is a jealous God, so protective of us that God does not want us to harm ourselves by making other things absolute. So let us continue to pray for each other and thank God for this grace.

