We all need to be consoled. And the reason why we are sad, the reason why we are not happy in life is simply because we are just suffering the punishment for our sins. God does not punish us. It's our sins that punish us. How does God console us? How does God really help us in our pain because of our sins? This God is a very beautiful God. He's a very compassionate God. So compassionate that this God allows us to grow in grace through our mistakes, through our sufferings. God,
like the good shepherd, He allows the sheep to stray because the sheep needs to learn from his own suffering. The love of God is so free that He allows us even to run away from Him. He even allows us to sin, to go astray, not because He does not love us, but because He wants our love for Him to be genuine,

to be really free and not be coerced into loving Him. And so He allows His sheep to stray but His eyes are always on the lost sheep, waiting to rescue the lost sheep when the lost sheep is in trouble. And that is how God treats us. The strength of love is not just to prevent someone from sinning.
The strength of love is to allow someone to make mistakes and then to help someone to learn from his mistakes and grow in life.

And it is through our consequences of sin that we come to treasure His love. It is only when we have lost ourselves, when we have lost the presence of God because of our sins,

then we begin to long for Him. We begin to yearn for His presence. It's the moment when we decide to stop sinning, the moment we decide to put our lives in order, then God is present.

metimes we say that God is absent. God is absent because our sins are present. Because God and sin cannot be present at the same time. If we feel miserable, most likely God is not present in our lives. And so we just need to remove those obstacles to God's presence.

And so how can we do this? Going back to the Word of God during the Advent season, reflecting and praying, is the way in which we are going to encounter His presence again.

