Truly, my dear brothers and sisters,
whenever a child is born, we all wonder what will this child turn out to be one day? All parents want their children to be successful in life, in career, in business, whatever it is. But my dear brothers and sisters, is success being measured only in those terms? If we are just concerned about worldly success,
that our children will be famous, they will be rich and they will be popular, will they find real happiness? Is success simply means to be on the top always? If we measure success in that way, our children will become ambitious, individualistic,
it's all about themselves, it is all about money and power and influence. They become egoistic. They will not find happiness. Real happiness at the end of the day,
real success is measured whether the child will be a giving person, someone who would make a difference in society.

Happiness, at the end of the day, is whether we fulfil God's plan for us.

Every one of us, we have a vocation in life. Every one of us, we have a special calling in this society. God has His plans. And if we align ourselves to the plan of God, we will always find happiness. And that was what St John the Baptist did. He was humble in accepting the plan of God for him. As prophet Isaiah says, he was called to be a precursor, to be a forerunner, to announce the Messiah that is to come. He was happy with the position that the Lord gave to him. He was not the Messiah.
When the religious leader said to him,

"Are you the Messiah?", he could have said, "Yes, I am the Messiah", because a lot of people believed in him. He was very popular, but he said, "No, I am not even worthy to untie the strap of his sandals." And when Jesus was baptising in the Jordan, they said,

"You know that guy you pointed out to the disciples? He is baptising." And what did St John the Baptist said? "Well, he must increase, I must decrease." He was happy to let Jesus shine forth. He knew that he was not the Messiah. He didn'ry to pretend. He didn'ry to outdo Jesus. When Jesus came,

He was willing to let go. You know my dear brothers and sisters, that's why John the Baptist not only he was a humble man,
he was cooperating with the plan of God.

And he was a happy man. He didn't have to be at the top. He was playing a second fiddle actually to Jesus. And not only he accepted to be a second fiddle, even his own mother, Elizabeth. You just imagine in today's Gospel,

Mary came to visit Elizabeth, carrying Jesus in her womb and John the Baptist was leaping for joy. She was not envious.
In fact she praised God,

"How could I be visited from a mother of my Lord?" She was not envious that other children are better than her son, no.
That's why we make our children very unhappy with us.

We like to compare them. If you want to find happiness in life, look at their heart. If they grow to be gracious people like John, so beautiful.

The name 'John' means 'God is gracious'. And John was gracious to be a second fiddle.

John was gracious just to be the forerunner, to be the voice. He said, "I'm not the Word. I'm just a voice.
Jesus the Messiah is the Word of God. I'm just a voice." And John the Baptist was contented. And so, my dear brothers and sisters, some of us are never contented with life, always not happy. Do you know why? Because you can't accept your position in life. You can't accept God's plan for you. You must rid the plan of God and do your own plan.

That's the problem. If you just submit to the plan of God, dance with the plan of God,

just do what you are supposed to do, play your part well, I can guarantee you, you will always find fulfilment and happiness.

