It is good for us to take note that in today's first reading we are told that so long as the people cooperated with the plan of God then things went smoothly but when they fail to cooperate with the plan of God, when they were disobedient, when they wanted to have things their way... and that was why they were wandering the desert for 40 years because Moses had to teach them how to align their plan with the plan of God.
So long as our plan is aligned with the plan of God, our life will always be at peace and we will be happy in life.

Crosses come only when our paths crossed the path of God otherwise we don't have crosses. If your plan is always in accordance with the plan of God, then God's will and your will becomes one. and this is true for us in life. Every time when we... our plans don't agree with the plan of God then we struggle, and it is in the process of struggling that somehow whether you like it or not you have to give in. That is a fact of life, so e hand, the plan of God, if you want to be happy align yourself with a plan of God - what God has planned for you, just align. If you don't, God's plan will also still be fulfilled. So when we look back at our life, then we began to realize the mistakes that we have made, those times we have cooperated with God, those times we've fail to cooperate with God. But at the end of the day, somehow God will ensure that his plans are fulfilled in our life.

Through the hard way or through the easy way. In today's Gospel, Jesus spoke about marriage he also speaks about single-hood as well, you can be married, you can be single - that is irrelevant. Again, these are states of life that God has given to us. So long as we cooperate with the plan of God,

we'll always be happy. But if you are married and you don't live your married life, you don't care for one another, you don'ake care of family, marriage becomes actually a big cross to you.
Marriage will not give you life, will not give you happiness. Those of us who are single - being single does not mean to say therefore we will be unhappy either. What ultimate matters at the end of the day, is that our life is lived in love, our life is lived in service. So the question is "Are you capable of love?" So there are some people who are married but they are not capable of love and that is why marriage life is destroyed, the family is destroyed. There are those who are single, they live only for themselves,

they only think about themselves and so in that sense they have not aligned their plan with the plan of God. So God has given us different gifts, we are called to different states of life, so long as we use them for good,

for love, for service, whichever state - we will always find happiness

