The beginning of faith is always rooted in love. The foundation of a Christian's life is this encounter with God who is love in Jesus. And it all boils down to how much have you been loved by the Lord. How much have you fallen in love with Him. For those of us who have encountered His love, then we will love Him,

we will serve Him. And when we come to Church, it is because we love Him.

Because only those people who have been touched by the Lord, only those who have been loved deeply by the Lord and they know that God loves them, only these people can truly witness for Christ, can inspire others to love Him.

Otherwise our witnessing will be weak.
There are many of you, although you might not be theologians, but you love Jesus in your heart. This is what will change the world.
And we are doing good because we love Jesus, because we see Jesus in every one of our brothers and sisters. So Christianity is not an ideology. It is really a relationship with Jesus. Without a relationship, there is no real commitment.
Because when we are committed to a person, we give our heart, we give our soul. When it's an ideology, you can change. You can change your thinking, you can change your thoughts. But when it's love, that is a lasting commitment. Some of you might say, "But I never experienced God's love. How do I fall in love with Jesus?" Again, Mary Magdalene is really a true example, teaching us how to fall in love with Jesus.

She longed to see Jesus, she yearned to see Jesus, she thirsted for the Lord.

And because she thirsted for the Lord, the Lord revealed Himself to her. She waited. She did not give up hope. That's why for those of us who love Jesus, we will not give up.

Even though sometimes we don't feel His presence and love, we will remain, we will stay. And I can tell you, my dear brothers and sisters, for those of you who have not experienced God's love and you think that God is very far away,

I just invite you to follow Mary Magdalene.
Just stay before the Lord, go to the adoration room before the Blessed Sacrament.  Just sit there in silence,

contemplate on His love and the Lord will speak to your heart. But you must persevere. You just stay still and the Lord will speak to your heart. So my dear brothers and sisters, if you want to find strength in life to do your work, to go through the chores and the difficulties of life, only love can empower you.

Without love, life is a drudgery. When you do everything with love, then life is always a great joy.

