What does it take to be a leader? In the first reading from the book of Maccabees, we have the leadership of Mattathias. He was a man with fortitude and integrity. That is an important aspect of leadership. And in the Gospel, we have Jesus who complemented leadership with compassion and forgiveness. It is important that as leaders, we need to combine these apparently incompatible qualities. How do we be firm and courageous, at the same time to be soft and weak. All bull strength will destroy everybody. If the leader is too soft,

nothing will get done as well. So life is a question of balancing. Mattathias, why was he respected? Why was he a great man? Precisely,
people respected him because he was a man of principles. And so they said, an office is given, respect is always earned. We have to earn the respect of people that we lead.
It's not enough just to use your office in order to get things done. And Mattathias also,
not only he was a man of principles. He was ready to sacrifice his life. He was all for God. Jesus was a man of non violence. He has always been preaching non violence. And he practised it in His own life. He did not perform miracles to attract wonders or make people to submit to Him. All the miracles were performed always out of love, always out of compassion.
It was not to display His glory. Everybody has their own free will today. We can do so much to guide them, to inspire them, to show by example. But at the end of the day, they have to be responsible for their own lives.

Those people who don't see the light, one day when the see the light, then they are really converted. Once they see the light,
then they begin to realise that those people who were trying to help them, they never forced them. I think today people change, not because of force, but because of love, because of compassion. And of course, they need the light of grace. metimes they don't see the light. They are so absorbed in their own world,

absorbed by their fears. And so with these people, we just ask for God's grace to help them. Mary is a combination of fortitude,
strength, compassion and forgiveness. When Jesus was carrying the cross, you just imagine Mary looking at Jesus suffering. Again, it takes courage to follow behind the cross,
to look at her son suffering. Fortitude. And yet, the gentleness without pressing, without taking revenge. But at the foot of the cross,

forgiveness, surrendering to God, surrendering her enemies. That is the kind of life we are called to live. That is the kind of leadership that Mary also presents to us.

