Today when we celebrate the Chair of St Peter,
the Apostle, what the Church is celebrating is the authority and power vested in the successor of St Peter, the Pope. And therefore it is important that when we celebrate this Feast,
we are reminded that the Pope, the Holy Father,

being the successor of St Peter, his faith is also the faith of the Church. Just as St Peter in today's Gospel profess in Christ as the Son of the Living God, St Peter was not just speaking of his own faith in Christ.
He was speaking on behalf of the entire Church.

And so it is very important for us as we celebrate the Feast of the Chair of St Peter, to recognise that this authority that has been invested on St Peter and his successor, it is for the work of unity in the Church to preserve the Church from harm and to preserve the purity of the faith of the Church. And of course when we speak about the unity of the Church,

this is central to Jesus' prayer when He was at His last days on Earth. He prayed that the Church might be kept united in love. Without unity, we lose the sign of His presence in the world. We become counter witnesses. And so when the authority is given to the Holy Father to protect the Church from division,
we must understand that this authority is given only to Him because of our faith in Christ. That is why in today's Gospel, again the Lord said to St Peter, "You are Peter and on this rock I will build my Church, and the gates of the underworld can never hold out against it." It is important therefore for us as Catholics to submit to the authority of the Holy Father because it is not just the question of him making a human decision.
His decisions are guided by our faith in Christ.

So having faith in the Holy Father, in his authority, in his decision making, is to have faith in Christ whom we believe has vested the Pope with this authority. And yet it is also important to recognise this. The authority given to the Holy Father is principally for the sake of unity. And today more than ever,
we need authority. Because as we all know that the world is so divided because of relativism,
because of mass media, social communication.

Everybody has different views and different ideas and very divergent views. So much so it is very difficult and extremely challenging to get everybody to agree on anything, to come to a consensus. And this where it is important. Because today the Church is divided,

simply because of the lack of submission to the authority of St Peter and his successors and the apostolic college. Today we cannot agree on so many issues even in the Church.

Even moral issues. We cannot agree on same sex union, euthanasia, abortion. Doctrinal issues, we cannot agree on whether those who are divorced and remarried, can they receive Holy Communion for example. Or even on practical issues, like should the Mass be suspended because of the virus? All these things, people have different views. You ask as many people,

you get as many views. And so if there is no central authority, no decisions can be made and the Church cannot be united and the Church cannot move forward.So authority especially is necessary in times of crisis, in times of division. And yet it is also good for us to take note, that the Holy Father does not exercise this authority in a dictatorial way.

And that is what St Peter in today's first reading said, "Never be a dictator over any group that is put in your charge." Jesus in His wisdom, not only gave us the Petrine office of the Holy Father, but He also gave us the apostolate college. Which means to say, the Bishops together with the Holy Father, they are the ones that rule the Church and govern the Church. And so the Holy Father shares his authority together with the Bishops who work in communion with him. And so it's very important that the Holy Father consults views.

That's why he holds Senates. He consults the Episcopal Conferences. He has his Curia to guide him. Because at the end of the day,
it is a governance of the universal Church.

For me as a Bishop by extension, my task as a Bishop is also to protect the unity of the local Church. This is the most challenging among all the tasks a Bishop has to do. To make sure that the people and the flock is united in love. Of course, for me in order to exercise this authority, I need to delegate my authority to the priests, the religious and to lay leaders. So that together we can help the Church to grow. Indeed today as I celebrate my 7th anniversary, the Church is where it is today, it is not because of me alone. I am just only a leader. I am just only someone who helps people to come together to share ideas and to inspire them in their vision , in their mission. What you see in the Church today is not the result of one person. Not even the priests. Not even the religious. Everyone has contributed to the growth of this Church. And I can tell you honestly, my greatest gratitude to God is to know that today there are so many lay people who feel that they are also co-responsible to the Church, as Pope Emeritus Benedict reminds us.And today, more and more of our lay people,
even young people, they are interested either to work in the Church full time, or to offer their services to the Church. And truly, without them, there will be no Church. That is why for me as a Bishop, whenever I think of all those people who have sacrificed their time generously, and most of them, their names are not known. Most of them, you do not see them. But the work is done. And that is why for us as Church in Singapore, we should be really grateful for the people who have actually helped to contribute their resources, their talents to the Church unselfishly with humility and with generosity. So today we want to thank God for the gift of this Feast because it reminds us that all of us, we are called to share in the authority of Christ in our own ways . And to share in the authority of Christ means simply to be a shepherd. Authority is always exercised for the good of all. No one who is in authority must exercise the power of authority for his own selfish interests.
And this is what St Peter again reminds us that as shepherds of the flock of God, watch over it not simply as a duty, but gladly because God wants it not for sordid money, but because you are eager to do it. And as a Bishop and for all those in authority, let us also be reminded - to be in authority is not about honour. It's about sacrifice. It's about dying to self. That is what it means to be in authority.

To give our lives for the service of others.
And therefore those in authority, before the Chief Shepherd appears (that is, Jesus) where we will be given the crown of unfading glory,

before you can wear the crown of glory, we are called to wear the crown of thorns. And that is why for us Bishops, ar purple cassock and ar a purple zucchetto, the skullcap as a reminder that we are called to share in the shame, in the humiliation that Christ went through when He was scourged and mocked before His death. And so for us as leaders, let us remember that suffering is part and parcel of this office that we undertake. You cannot be a leader if you are not ready to suffer misunderstandings, ridicule,

criticisms, oppositions, rejection. That is part of being a leader. But all those of us who are leaders in our own ways, let us take courage. Because the responsorial psalm said,

"The Lord is my shepherd, there is nothing I shall want." Every Christian leader, priest,

religious or lay, we must put our trust in the Lord Jesus. Before we can be shepherds to others, shepherds after the heart of Christ,
we must first get to know His heart. We must accept Jesus as our Shepherd. We must walk with Him, journey with Him. That's why only an intimacy with Jesus, the Good Shepherd,
as St Peter did, could we confess, "You are the Christ, the Son of the Living God." And with Jesus, we know that the Church will always be protected by His grace and His love.

