The vision of the Church in Singapore is that we must build a vibrant,

evangelising, missionary Church. But what does it mean to be vibrant? Does it mean to say so long as the Church has plenty of activities? Externally, it may look vibrant. But I think the more important question we need to ask is, where does this apparent vibrancy originate from and are directed to? Because we can be involved in many activities, but the soul of these activities is lacking, the real motivation in what we do. Although we Catholics say we are saved by Christ, but I'm not too sure. For many Catholics they are not saved by Christ. They are saved by good works. So many Catholics, they live in guilt, in fear because they feel that they didn't do enough of good works.
And so if they appear before God our Heavenly Father, they may not get admittance into Heaven. And me Catholics are involved in good works,
doing good, not because they love Jesus,

but because they are fearful that if they have no good works to produce, they will be rejected by Jesus. And so if we think that salvation is earning merits by doing good, we don't need Jesus really.
We don't need Jesus to save us since we can save ourselves by doing good. At most,
therefore, Jesus is just an exemplar, a model, a good model, but we can do without Him. Precisely, in Christian faith,

salvation is not by good works. Salvation is through faith in Jesus. That is why Jesus is the New Covenant.
In the New Covenant, we are doing good not because we want to save ourselves. We already saved. We are doing good because Jesus is in us. It is because Jesus is living in us, loving us, that's why we have the capacity to do good. And we want to do good, not because we want to earn our salvation. We want to do good simply because we want to share the life and the love that Christ has given to us.
This is the motivation for doing good,

in fact, the motivation for all activities. Consequently it's important to ask ourselves, those of us who are Catholics, what is driving you to do good?

If it is not your interior life with the Lord, if you're not motivated by God's love in you, you are trying to save yourself. But if you are motivated by God's love for you, then it is an expression of the fact that the Lord has saved you.
It's about interior life, being in union with Jesus. How then can we be one with the vine?

One way to be one with the vine, first and foremost, is that we need the Word of God. You know, my dear brothers and sisters, this is the most unfortunate part of our Catholics. They don'ake the Word of God seriously. They don't read the Word of God.
They don't meditate on the Word of God.

They don't share the Word of God with their friends. If we don't read the Word of God, how are we going to be purified of our motives, of the way we live our Christian lives? That is why I've seen so many active Catholics and even active church leaders, they don't exhibit the compassion of Christ. They don't exhibit charity. In fact, they may be doing a lot of things for the Church. They are rude, they are arrogant, they are insensitive. We will actually push more people away from having faith in Jesus.
All the good things we have done will be destroyed. Because why? We don't exhibit the Christ-like character in us. That's the reason. And the reason is simple. Because we never reflect on the Word of God. We don't let the word of God have a place in my heart, in my mind, so that I can act and think like Jesus all the time. It's the Word of God that inspires us, that corrects us. To be connected with the Word,
therefore, is the first way in which we strengthen our interior life. But that is not all. We must be connected with Jesus in the Eucharist. The vine refers to His Body and Blood. So it's very important. In order to grow in faith, not only we must be connected with the Word of God, we must receive Jesus in the Eucharist.
That's why for us, the Eucharistic celebration, the Eucharist is a highlight of our faith, the summit of our faith.

Because that is how we are sacramentally connected with Jesus, encountering His love and can feel His presence in the Eucharist. To be united with Jesus, to be united with the vine, it also means that we are united with the body of Christ, the Church, the mystical body. We must always be in connection with the leaders, with the Church. No Christian, no Catholic can independently. No bishop can act independently from the Church. No priests can act independently from the bishop.

Because this is where the question of union with the Church comes in. Unless we are one with the Church in vision, one with the Church in everything, there will be no fruits in what we do.
Everybody is doing their own thing. As Church, we need to stand together. We need to support each other. Jesus is present in the Church, so we must be connected with the body of Christ.

Again, you see many of our Catholics, this is the weak part. They are all individualistic. It is me and God, but they have no friends. No Catholic friends to share their faith. Their only friends are all non-Catholics. Of course, at the end of the day, if all your friends are non-Catholics, who is going to nurture your faith? Who is going support your faith? You will gradually lose your faith.

And this is true for those who are newly baptised. If after baptism, they are not connected with the Church, the body of Christ, with fellow Catholics, it's a matter of time when their faith will dwindle,
diminished and lost. Prayer is very important. Praying for ourselves, praying with our fellow Catholics, that is the way we are united. That is the way we united in Jesus. So my dear brothers and sisters, let us pray on this Feast day of Our Lady of Fatima. Our Lady has always encouraged us to purify our lives, to live more like the Gospel way of life through penance, through prayers and most of all,
a frequent reception of the Eucharist.

