"Come to me, all you who labour and are overburdened and I will give you rest."

My dear brothers and sisters, these are such beautiful words in today's Gospel.

For who is not burdened?

Who is not troubled?

All of us carry within ourselves so much burdens in life. Young or old,
healthy or sickly,

rich or poor.

Regardless of which profession, the work that we do,

all of us, we carry lots of burdens.

And very often, we feel so crushed by all our worries and anxieties and the challenges that faces each day.

And many of us in the process also are hurt and wounded because of relationships, misunderstanding,
experiences of injustices, people who do not understand us, accuse us wrongly.
All the sacrifices that we have made and we feel they come to nothing.

So, my dear brothers and sisters, if you are feeling that way, on this Solemnity of the Sacred Heart of Jesus, we are called to contemplate on the heart of God,

so that we will never be shaken,
never doubt His love for us,

regardless of the cross that you carry in life. That is why today in the Gospel,

Jesus said, "Shoulder my yoke and learn from me, for I am gentle and humble in heart. You will find rest for your souls."

We are called to learn from Jesus how to carry our crosses, how to carry our burdens. Surely my dear brothers and sisters, none of us can ever imagine that we are carrying heavier crosses than our Lord, that we have been more misunderstood than our Lord, and that we have suffered more shamefully than our Lord and more cruelly than our Lord.

Surely we cannot compare ourselves the cross that Jesus carried in His life.

And yet our Lord said,

"My yoke is easy, my burden light." Why is the yoke of Jesus easy? Burden light?

My dear brothers and sisters,

the burdens of life are difficult, very heavy. Looking after our elderly,

looking after our children,

doing our work in the office, or even sometimes serving in Church. We can be involved in activities. But it's obligatory, it's a duty. Something that we have to do. And we carry them out always without love. At most a duty,

very often reluctantly. Even on Sunday we go to church reluctantly.

That is why when there is no love in our hearts,

it is always a big burden. That is what St John tells us in today'econd reading. If there is no love of God in our hearts, we cannot love.

So when we put love in whatever we do,

the yoke becomes easy, burden is light.

Isn't it true, my dear brothers and sisters,

when your friends ask you to do something,

oh even though it's difficult, you will do it happily.
Isn't it true?

When it'omeone you love deeply,

you will be patient and kind.

Actually,

I've come to realise this.

When we are impatient with someone,

when we lose our temper, when we are angry, irritable, it is because we have not loved the person enough.

If you truly love the person,

you'd be very careful with your words.

You'd be very patient.

Because when we love someone, we don't want to hurt the person.

We will talk gently.

So it's always the lack of love in our hearts that make us actually get angry with people, quarrel with people. We treat people not as our friends.

They are just people that are meant to serve us. They're just people that are meant to supply what we need. Even true at home. Parents take for granted their children, children take their parents for granted.

When we love, we are always sensitive.

That is why when we find that we are not compassionate enough,

it's because there is no love in our hearts.

That is why on this Feast of the Sacred Heart,

Jesus comes to reveal to us the love of God for us.

Only by contemplating on the love of God,

then perhaps our hearts will be changed.

St John makes it so clear. He said,

"This is the love I mean. Not our love for God but God's love for us when He sent his Son to be the sacrifice that takes our sins away."

We are not capable of loving.

We are not capable of forgiving.

Because we have not really come to realise how much we have been loved,

how much we have been forgiven,

how much mercy God has shown to us.

Indeed my dear brothers and sisters,
in today's first reading, it is so beautiful again.

Moses told the people,

"The Lord set His heart on you." So beautiful. Heart.

Heart means love.

"If the Lord has set His heart on you and chose you, it was not because you outnumbered other peoples. You were the least of all peoples."

If we come to realise this, we'd be so ever grateful. We will never complain.

We are always complaining. Was never enough.

But actually if you look at your own life, we have been blessed in so many ways.

And not because you and I are worthy. No.

In spite of our nothingness, the Lord still loves us  chose us.

If we truly realise this,

then we will be very grateful. And our gratitude is seen in our love for our fellowmen. But we are not.

Because we take for granted.

We think we work for it. That is why in the Gospel Jesus said pride.

"I bless you, Father, Lord of heaven and earth for hiding these things from the learned and the clever, revealing them to mere children." We are too proud. Proud of ourselves, proud of our achievements.

If only we can contemplate on God's mercy. Where others fail us,
we cannot forgive them. But actually, if you look at your own life, how many times we have failed the Lord.

And the Lord, we are told,

always gracious and forgiving. That is the heart of God. God's love for us was revealed when He sent his Son into the world, so that we have life through Him. "This is the love I mean." That is what St. John said.

Not our love for God, but God's love for us.

That is why it'o important to contemplate on the heart of Jesus. You know,

the Sacred Heart is actually a human heart. When we look at the picture, it is a human heart. A heart that is filled with love, with compassion, with mercy and with forgiveness.

This is the kind of heart that God has for us.

Always forgiving,

always gracious. The moment we repent,
everything is over.

And that is how my dear brothers and sisters,

when we celebrate the Feast of the Sacred Heart, this is how we are called to do the same. This is the whole text of St John's letter, to love like Him. When we love like Him, we will be healed.

When we love like Him, we will find hope.

And so my dear brothers and sisters,

this is what we are called to do. "If only you know the heart of the Father." That is what Jesus means. He says, "Father, for that is what it pleased you to do. Everything has been entrusted to be mine. Father. And no one knows the Son except the Father. No one knows the Father except the Son and those to whom the Son chooses to reveal Him." If we want to know the heart of the Father, if we want to know the heart of God, what must you do? Contemplate on Jesus, on His Sacred Heart, on the Eucharist. That is why you notice the Feast of the Sacred Heart is celebrated right after the Feast of Corpus Christi.
Before Corpus Christi, we have the Feast of the Holy Trinity. Then we have Pentecost. Then we have Easter. All these celebrations are what? Celebrations of the heart of God's love, whether it's the Holy Spirit, whether it is the Feast of the Body and Blood of Christ. So my dear brothers and sisters, nvite you. If you are lonely, if you feel down, if you feel weary, spend some time before the Lord,
contemplating on His sacred Heart. That means on His heart of love. You will find strength. Because only love can give us the strength to endure all the sufferings of life.

