In the first reading from the Acts of the Apostles, we have this crippled man at the beautiful gate of the temple. So when Peter and John were passing by, he was begging for money, hoping that Peter and John would give him something. That was all he expected, to have some money for his livelihood. But my dear brothers and sisters, Peter and John were not contented just to give the man some money to go by. Not even to restore his health but to give him the most precious thing.

And what is that? Give him faith in Jesus, the Risen Lord. We can imagine the thoughts that are going through this man. Is this real?
All he expected was just some money.

My dear brothers and sisters, isn'hat the way we deal with God? We don'rust in Him enough. We are afraid that if we ask for great things, He will not give to us.

This is a lack of faith. Those in humanitarian organisations, those who are working for the poor, for the marginalised, very often we think our job is done if we have given some provisions,
some food, some shelter for the homeless.

But if we have not given them Jesus, the gift of faith in Jesus, we have really short-changed them.
That is why the world today is so secular because we don't give the world a personal encounter of the Risen Lord.

We don't give them faith in Jesus. They only have faith in this world. This is the only world they have. That's why they are downcast and depressed. Aand that is the reason why they find that God is not with them. Because the more they just focus on the world, the more they just focus on money and power and pleasures,

the more frustrated they become and they will fall into depression. And when they get into trouble, when they pay the consequences of their sins,

they begin to ask where is God? God is not there. The greatest gift we can give to anyone is the gift of Jesus. Because when they have Jesus, they have everything. They will be contented.
They will be happy. Even when they are suffering, they will find meaning and purpose. It is only those without Jesus that are always depressed because they have no hope. Their only hope is in this life, in the life of pleasure. How do we give someone Jesus? The first thing we need to do is to be their friends. We must never impose our doctrines on people who have not yet come to believe. We just have to walk by their side, show our sincerity by being friends first. If you are not friend with someone, we cannot talk about Jesus.

You first must be a friend. Once you are a friend, then the next step is to engage them. To help someone to encounter Jesus,
they first must be given the opportunity to articulate their pains, their disappointments, their anxieties. We must not be too fast, too quick to give advice. We should not be giving advice until we can connect with their pains, with their stories. We need to hear them out.
The trouble is many of us, we are so judgemental.
Even before the person can speak about his pain, we come with a solution. And that is why some people are put off.

We just have to hear. You cannot talk about Jesus again to someone if you have not won their confidence. And then the third step. After listening ,when we are engaged,

when they have confidence in us, then we talk about Jesus. We show them how Jesus is the Son of God, the Saviour of the world. So many texts in the Scripture, in the Psalm 22 especially, Psalm 15. All these have pointed to the resurrection of Jesus. And so you know, my dear brothers and sisters, if we want to enlighten someone, we must be familiar with the Scriptures. If you want to bring someone to Jesus, what better way than to use Scriptures to enlighten them. That is why we must be familiar with the Word of God. When we use the Word of God to enlighten people, the Word of God has power on its own. Not human words because He's the Word of God.
So when people can connect their lives with the Scripture, they begin to see meaning, they begin to see purpose and they begin to accept the situation they are in. Even in their sufferings, even if it's a bereavement, when we see the bigger picture, the greater meaning of their sufferings and struggles, they will begin to praise and thank God. That is how we allow people to encounter Jesus.

