In every organisation,

in every religion,

in every country,

we need good leaders.

Good leaders are very important for any organisation to make progress and to grow. It is therefore important for us to find the right leaders to serve us wherever we are. Looking for the right leaders, of course, is not an easy task.

It requires tremendous discernment and scrutiny before we can find the right leaders. This is necessary. Otherwise, we will pay a high price for choosing the wrong leaders to lead us. And so it's important that in choosing our leaders,

we need to ensure that leaders have a right relationship with God and with the people that they are serving,

otherwise self interest will motivate them. It is dangerous when leaders serve with wrong motives, when they are more concerned with themselves than with others. Hypocritical attitudes of leaders, this is the first thing we need to discern. Are they genuine? Secondly,
in finding the right leaders, it's important also to recognise legitimate authorities. Leaders are somehow appointed by God. They do not appoint themselves. When leaders appoint themselves and put themselves in power,
in position,

they become manipulative.

Leaders to not represent themselves, but mostly to see and to ensure that those people under their charge are well looked after, are protected and their needs are attended to. And that is why it is very important that when we are discerning those who will become our leaders, that these are not self appointed leaders.

They are truly chosen by God.

Otherwise, as the Lord said, He will remove the leaders.

Thirdly,

in selecting leaders, we have to be sure that leaders do not serve idols. What are the new idols? Science, technology, economy.
The world thinks that science,

technology and economy will bring about a happy world, a united people. This is not true.

Of course,

we need science, technology and economy.
We need to provide for the people's needs. This is part of the gospel. We need to help our people to grow and to live a better life. Certainly, there is no doubt. But a better life cannot be reduced to simply a country that is prosperous, economically powerful,

militarily the most powerful. No.
Happiness comes about when there is true recognition that God is present among us. We are all brothers and sisters.

Happiness comes about when people are united in love, when there is mutual respect,

when there is this inclusivity,

when we care for the poor, the elderly,
the marginalised. When we do not only take care of the rich and the powerful. When we try to ensure a better level of justice,

and most of all, charity,

a gracious nation, a gracious society that has values, strong moral values,

integrity, honesty. These are the things that will hold the country together, not just prosperity in economic terms. And this is where it's important.

Moral decadence will destroy the country eventually.

And if we are not careful,

when we have moral decadence, whatever achievements that we make will be lost.

Jesus shows us what it means to be a good shepherd. He was a man who represent God. He was a man that reaches out to the people. He was not staying in His office. He did not rule from His chair. He was with the people, walking with the people, identifying Himself with the people, being one with the people in sufferings, giving them hope,
giving them encouragement, healing them wherever possible. This is the kind of leader we should be looking for. This is the kind of leader that we need today,
whether in the political world, in the religious world, or even in the corporate world. We need leaders who are compassionate, leaders who are really concerned about all those people serving with him, for the good of everyone. We need to continue the work of Jesus, of establishing a kingdom of justice, of love, of peace. And everybody is responsible for this. Let us pray always for good leaders.

