Today, we celebrate the Feast of St Joseph.
And St Joseph is described in the Gospel just with one word -  He is a just man. What do we mean when we say that Joseph is a just man? Very often, we reduce the word "just" to "justice". That is why today many people are seeking for justice. They want to have their rights. Not just only the basic rights of food, accommodation but also freedom, not just for worship, but also rights for their own body, rights to euthanasia, rights to abortion and so on.

And very often, we also reduce the word "just"
simply to "justice" in the sense that a person is just when he obeys the laws,
when he respect the rights of others,

when he is observant of what the laws dictate. And so we have to be very careful because sometimes a person who is just might seem to be seen as someone who is uncompromising,
intolerant of others who break the laws.

This reminds me of the famous legendary judge in China. Bao Gong, as we called him.

Justice Bao. He was known to be extremely just and impartial. He wanted to wipe out corruption in his country. He had no fear of anyone, not even the Emperor.

He even sentenced his uncle all the royal members of the family, those who committed crimes to death.
He had no mercy. He was a man of justice because he expected everyone to live according to the law. Our parallel is Saul, who later became Paul. Saul too was a man who was obedient to the laws. He was blameless before the law, as he tells us in Galatians. He was a man who was a true rabbi and he even persecuted the Christians to uphold the laws. But my dear brothers and sisters, this is not what we mean when we say Joseph is a just man.
The word "just" in the Scripture is more than just being legally right. The word
"just" means that a person is honourable.

He is responsible. Of course, he is just towards his brothers and sisters. But most of all,

a just person is one who is compassionate, who is generous, who is forgiving and who has deep charity for others. A just man therefore is one who is in union with God and in love for his fellow men. And so this is what today we see in the Gospel. We have Joseph who apparently was betrayed by Mary because Mary was found to be pregnant. I'm sure if re Joseph, we will be shocked.

We will be hurt and we'll be wondering how could my future spouse betray me? I don'hink we will behave like Joseph who quietly sat down and started to reflect. We will be angry. We will respond and we will want to shame Mary. Today,

that is always the case. I'm sure in those days if they had social media, her name would be published everywhere,
Instagram, Facebook, of what she had done.

But that wasn'he case. Joseph, we are told, he did not react that way. And for what reason?

In fact, we are told instead. Joseph being a man of honour and wanting to spare her publicity decided to divorce her informally. That means to say not in public. Nobody knows about it.
Joseph was still trying to attend to Mary. He was not reacting out of resentment or anger. He was trying to protect Mary even in that situation. And what could be the reason? There are three theories, they said, why Joseph decided to divorce her informally and never took action against her. The first reason was because Joseph was doubtful.

He was doubtful whether there was a real adultery because there was no proof. Yes,

she was pregnant but there was no evidence that she committed adultery. And because he was doubtful, he left it at that. He did not make a judgement. There is also another theory. They call it the perplexity theory. So when Joseph discovered Mary to be pregnant, of course he was perplexed. How could this be possible?
I'm sure if your girlfriend gets pregnant and you never slept with her,
you will surely ask how could it be possible? She must have slept with someone.

But you notice Joseph, he was perplexed because he knew Mary. He trusted in Mary. He knew that Mary was not that kind of person but yet she was pregnant. Could it be the intervention of God? Then again,
we are very sure that Joseph would have read the Old Testament. There were what we call miracle stories of how Abraham and Sarah give birth in their old age.
How Samson was born when the mother was barren. So there were cases of that. But he was not sure.

And they say there is also a third theory.
Maybe Joseph really believed that Mary,

her pregnancy was the result of God's intervention. And then he said to himself,

"I'm such an unworthy man.
Mary is carrying the baby from God."

So out of respect or reverence for her,
he decided to separate himself from Mary.

Regardless of whatever theory we subscribe to, the point was simply Joseph did not react.
Joseph was always careful in the way he responded to the situation. Since he did not have the facts, since he did not know,

Joseph did not make any judgement. Instead,
Joseph continued to believe in her and gave her the benefit of the doubt,
whatever it could be. And this is the kind of justice that Joseph exercised.
This kind of justice that we are called to exercise. How often when people have hurt us, when we feel that some people have betrayed us, how often we jump to conclusion? How often we judge them even before we come to know the real situation? And if Joseph was able to be rational, to be level-headed, to be sober even in the face of an apparent betrayal, it was simply because Joseph was a man of prayer. That is why the silence of Joseph in the Bible. He never spoke a single word, by the way, because of his silence. The silence was not an empty silence. The silence was a rich interior prayer life. Joseph was always communicating with God. Throughout the day, I'm sure, when he was working, he would be thinking of the situation.

And God spoke to him in a dream. And so it is very important for us.

Sometimes when we are troubled, when we are worried,

when we are confused, when we are perplexed, instead of reacting to situations, we are called to be like Joseph. We are called to withdraw in prayer. And this is where the Lord will inspires us and guide us. And we are told precisely,

Joseph is a just man. Because when the Lord spoke to him and called him Joseph, son of David, confirming that God wanted him to be the foster father.

Because Jesus to be the saviour needs to fulfill the prophecy made to David because Joseph belongs to the Davidic family. And so when ard the message from the angel,
we are told when he woke up, he did what the angel of the Lord had told him to do. A man of prayer leads to a man of action.

So before we act, we first must pray. And Joseph is the one who teach us therefore how to really exercise true justice.
A justice that is always tempered with mercy and compassion.

