The world today is in a very bad shape.
The world has degenerated more and more each day.
Culturally, we have lost this graciousness in speech, modesty in dressing. Today, people cannot tell a lie from a truth. In this world that we live today, a world where everyone is called to be amoral, which is the consequence of relativism, there is ambiguity in everything. And that is the reason why very few of us today dare to speak of values. Because in truth, there are no values. When the world is amoral, this leads to the destruction, not just of the planet, but of humanity. In terms of individualism, we notice that in spite of the call to be more socially connected,

there is this deep alienation of the individual with the rest of society. The individual is simply concerned about himself, his enjoyment, his benefits. He is not bothered with the rest of humanity.
This is what the world is today, a very inward looking world, a very proud world.
Today, the world does not believe in God.

The world believes that humanity, we are all powerful, we know everything. We do not need to submit to a being higher than us with the highest of all beings. And we have the power of science and technology.
These will be the new saviours of the world, not God. Is it true, my dear brothers and sisters? You look at the world today. We have advanced technology in telecommunication, in medicine. We have artificial intelligence, digital media.
But what is happening to the world? Have we become more united? In fact, there is more miscommunication, more distorted news, more misunderstanding. It has not brought the world together. Because technology and science, they are blind.
They are just tools. But who uses the tools?

That is the ultimate question. Whether it is a person with morality, or a person without morality. Again if you look at the question of poverty, we have more than enough food to feed the whole world and plenty of food is wasted every day. And yet, there is still so much poverty in the world. When there is no justice, when there is a great disparity between the rich and poor, you cannot expect people to be happy, to be united. Powerful countries, ironically, are the most insecure. There is this arms race to have more and more powerful weapons. We spend billions of dollars to acquire arms but how much do we spend on the economy, on helping the poor? We are insecure. We want to be more powerful than anybody on this earth because we see every man a threat to our existence, to our happiness. We need the Holy Spirit who is the Spirit of Truth, the Spirit of Love, the Spirit of Unity to transform this world, to permeate every sector of human life by dwelling in every human heart. Without the Holy Spirit, we cannot bring this world together, united in love. In order to build this world, to renew the face of the earth, we must begin with ourselves.

We need a fresh outpouring of the Holy Spirit in our lives, in our hearts. And this can come about only when we repent.
Repentance is the beginning of restoration. Without acknowledgement of our own sinfulness, our pride and  our arrogance,

there will never be the possibility for us to listen to the voice of God. It is only when we begin to acknowledge our own sinfulness, then we can receive the forgiveness of God. If you are not able to forgive others, there is only one reason. You have not received God's forgiveness. Because if you have received God's forgiveness, you will give what you have received. That is why if a person has really recognised his lowliness, his sinfulness before God and received that forgiveness, we will be able to set the whole world free. We will be able to set our enemies free. There is a lot of revenge in this world, retaliation, simply because the human person fails to recognise he is a sinner himself. He judges everybody.

He condemns everybody. Oh, everyone is wrong but he is right. He has no sin.

This is the problem. If only we realise that we are sinners, then when others sin, we will pray for them. We will forgive them. All this division in the world is simply because today the world has not received forgiveness. This is a very cruel world. When you do something wrong, you are damned. Not for God though. For God,

when we do something wrong, He always forgives. He never holds back forgiveness.

This is the beauty of the grace of the Holy Spirit.

Have you received that forgiveness? Then pray. Pray for it. Once you receive forgiveness, then you'll recognise that we are all brothers and sisters. That's why the Holy Spirit unites us, helps us  to recognise that all of us are one. When we are not reconciled with your brothers and sisters, there is no peace. Don't bluff yourself. If you are angry with this person, if you cannot forgive your father,

your mother, you can pretend,
"Oh it's alright, I don't care."

Deep in your heart, you'll have no peace.
Because all of us are one. Don't deceive yourself. And that is why the world has forgotten. The world has forgotten that we are all one family. We have the same human blood, same human aspirations. We want peace. We want love. We want understanding. We want unity. All of us have received gifts, not for ourselves.
Our gifts that the Lord has given to us are meant for the service of others. It's not just even for myself or my family. We are one family. You cannot protect your family unless you protect the bigger family. The COVID-19 is a very good example. You cannot save yourself unless you save the whole world. You cannot protect yourselves from the virus if others have the virus. It is only because we keep thinking about ourselves,

because of this individualistic mentality. My own world, my life, my happiness, my country, my nation. We need to think beyond this narrow understanding of nationality, narrow understanding of race, of culture. That is why the Holy Spirit is the one that brings unity. That is why we are called  Catholics and we call ourselves, Catholic Church,
because it is universal. The Catholic Church embraces people of all races,
languages, cultures, rich or poor, it doesn't matter because we are all one family.
And so my dear brothers and sisters,

let us work for this unity. Most of all,
let us pray.

Because without prayers, we cannot renew the face of the earth.

