In yesterday's Gospel, the Lord told us the greatest commandment is to love the Lord our God with all our heart, with all our soul, with all our mind and with all our strength. How many of us could truly say we love God in this manner? Indeed in the first reading from Prophet Hosea, the Israelites claim that they love God.

But it was not true.
That is why God indicted them. And He said, "What am I to do with you,
Ephraim? What am I to do with you, Judah?

This love of yours is like a morning cloud, like the dew that quickly disappears." It is true that for many of us, whether we say we love God or even our brothers and sisters, or even our spouse or loved ones, very often love is just mere words. The love is not real.
The love is not deep. Our love is self-centered, inward looking, superficial and external. This is the kind of love that is rejected by God. That is why today, the scripture readings invites us to really examine our conscience. How much do we really love Him?

For many of us, our love of God is based on fear. That was how the Israelites loved God. They turned back to God only because they were fearful of punishment.

They were fearful of God's wrath. It's not because they loved God. They loved themselves more than they love God. And so true for many of us. Very often we live a good life or sometimes we feel sorry for what we have done. Not because what we have done have hurt people,

have hurt our loved ones, but because we have hurt ourselves, because we are facing the punishment, the consequences of our sins.There are some people who are punished for their sins. They are removed from their responsibilities.

And they are sorry. But they are sorry for who? Sorry for themselves.

Not because they are sorry that they have hurt others. Precisely, this was a kind of love that Israel showed to God.
This is not truly loving God. Then there is also the kind of love that is presumptuous. Very often we take love for granted. We take the love our parents for granted. We take the love of our spouse for granted. Very often, we treat our loved ones worse than we treat strangers.

It is true, sometimes better to be a stranger than to be a loved one. Because when you are a stranger, people will be more hospitable to you, more polite. But at home, people don'reat us with respect.
They don't use kind words. They take us for granted. Presumptions love means to say, therefore, we think the person will love us unconditionally, no matter what we do. This could be true. And the love of God is also unconditional. But there is a problem because many of us takes the love of God for granted. It is like the Israelites in today's first reading.

They say, "Let us return the Lord. He will tear us to pieces but he will heal us.

After the third day we will be back to normal." Martin Luther gave us a beautiful doctrine on justification by faith alone. A very beautiful doctrine which even the Catholic Church ascribed to. But the greatest danger of this doctrine, as one of the greatest Lutheran theologian, Dietrich Bonhoeffer said when we reduce the costly grace of God to cheap grace, it will destroy us.

Cheap grace means grace without conversion. It means grace without commitment, without sacrifices, without repentance. That is cheap grace. Cheap grace will endanger our lives. And so true, the way we relate to God.

If we are presumptuous that God will always be there for us and we take him for granted but there is no true repentance, that kind of presumptuous love will also destroy us.
Then again, our love can be simply external. That is why today the Lord said,
"What I want is love, not sacrifice."

External rituals. Rituals are important.
Worship is important. The signs of love are important. But very often, the external signs don't reflect the interior dimension of our heart. Even sometimes when we give gifts to others on their birthdays, on their anniversaries, do we really truly mean what we give to them?

Is it just simply something that we give externally, or truly an expression of our love for someone? And so to, very often in worship, people can be there, can be going for Mass on Sundays, it's just external.
Just to look good, the family is very united, we go together to church,

happy, sign of peace and all these things, but at home they are fighting like cats and dogs. So this is the real issue.
External way of loving which is not true.

And God does not consider that this is true worship. And this is very important because this external form of worship,
sometimes often mislead us into thinking that we are loving God. And again,
sometimes our love for God is not just only simply external but it's just simply what we call a love of self, worship of self and worship of God. This is very dangerous especially for those of us who are involved in church ministry.
Sometimes the choir, they are more concerned about whether they sing well and whether people appreciate the choir, or whether they are leading people  worship God. Or sometimes a lector.
A lector can be very eloquent and pronounce correctly, more worried about what people think how he is reading, or whether he is expressing the mind of God. We are here not to impress people. We are here to express what the Lord wants to tell the people. And so this is precisely the case of the Pharisee in today's Gospel. He was recounting, He was articulating all that he has done for God. A boastful person, a prideful person. And this is where the danger lies. When we worship God, God must be the centre of our lives. We cannot be the centre. We must do what we have to do and then we move on. That is why sometimes also in our church we have issues. We tell people, you must come to church properly attired but they are over-dressed. Outlandish dressing. They want to impress people and everybody is looking at them instead of looking at God. So in the church we have to ask ourselves, am i a source of distraction for others when it comes to worship, or am i helping others to pray more fervently, to be more focused on God. And again finally, it is important that when we pray, this is again where the mistake of the Pharisee lies. He thinks that grace is all his efforts, his merits, what he has done for God. When we come to pray before God, a true worshipper must be like this tax collector. Contrite in spirit, humble before God, realising that everything we have depends on Him alone. And this is the kind of prayer that is acceptable to God.

This kind of worship that God delights in us.

