All relationships, in order to thrive and to grow, must be deepened over time. The reason why many beautiful relationships are broken including marriages, it is because very often, those of us who are in relationship, we tend to take each other for granted. We no longer speak to each other from our heart, especially so for those who are married. They talk about children, about in-laws, about finance,
about their work,

but they don't share with each other their feelings, their aspirations, their fears,

their joys. After some time, they can no longer feel with each other and for each other. And this will later on lead to greater misunderstanding because the warmth, the love of the relationship is missing. If this is true for human relationship, it is true in our relationship with God. Our relationship with God also requires that we continue to deepen our knowledge of Him, our understanding of Him. Faith is something that requires us to rekindle it now and again. Unfortunately for many Catholics,
they possess their faith as if it is a treasure that they can simply keep in the book shelf or in their pockets and to make use of it as if it's a charm when they are in difficulties.

Many Catholics do not really grow in their faith. When they've finished their RCIA or when they've finished their Confirmation, that's the end of formation.

They are not reading more about Jesus.
They don't read and pray the Bible. They don'ry to deepen their faith through attending retreats and seminars and conferences. The faith that they have was the faith when it was fossilised after their Baptism or their conversion or their Confirmation. That's the reason why many of our Catholics are nominal Catholics. When they are challenged, when they are threatened by others, some will then begin to find out more about their faith. But for many, they get confused,
they are misled and they think that the Catholic Church, we are teaching all nonsense things that are against the Scripture. Many of our Catholics, they subscribe to the values of the world, not the values of the Gospel, simply because their relationship with God is weak.

And this is very true as well. Even for many of our teachers of the Faith, whether the priests or laypeople or catechists, they are using the same old notes, the same lectures that they've been giving for years.

There is no deepening, no further insight into what they are teaching, what they are reading. Things are developing.
Situations have changed, new experiences.

They do not bring all these into their reflection. And that is the reason why after some time, they are repeating the same story again and no one is listening.

So it's very important, my dear brothers and sisters, we do not fossilise our faith.

Faith must be a growing thing all the time, as in any relationship.

Many of our leaders are so afraid that others will outshine them. When there are new talents, they stifle them. When there are new talents, they feel threatened. Good leaders must be those who learn to spot talents and be able to mentor them, so that they can blossom. We never correct people in public.

We never reprimand all those people under us in public. Because if those under us lose their credibility, they can no longer do their work because people will have lost confidence in them. A good leader is always very sensitive in the way he mentors his disciples. He brings them quietly and let them know what is needed to be done, so to save the dignity of the person. Do we have that kind of generosity among our leaders? If someone can do a better job, will they say,

"Please take over. I will take a back seat"?  No. Sometimes the selfish leaders, they just want to cling onto their positions. They want to be in the limelight all the time. This is very important. As good teachers, we need to keep on mentoring disciples, finding new talents.
So that together with them, we can truly proclaim the Gospel. A leader can grow, your collaborator can grow if only the community supports. The community cannot be selfish. Without the community support, the person who has been chosen as a leader will not grow.

That is why even those of us who are in members of community, in organisations, we need to encourage one another.
Don't put each other down. We need to lift each other and to edify one another,
so that everyone can do his or her best for the Kingdom of God.

