Regardless of your vocation in life,
married, single, a professional or an ordinary worker, a homemaker, a priest, it doesn't matter. What matters is that whichever vocation we have chosen in life, or rather the Lord has chosen for us, we make sure that we are life-giving.
Although 'Vocation Sunday' celebrates all vocations, in a very special way the Church wants to emphasise priestly vocation. Not because priestly vocation is higher than all other vocations,

but because priestly vocation has a special place among all vocations. For the simple reason is, a priest is the one who promotes all other vocations. hat is why the priesthood is the mother of all vocations. The priest is one who encourages all forms of vocations,
empowers, enrich and support all of you in your different state of life. A priest is called to be a shepherd after the heart of Christ. He is called to be a leader. All of us, we are called to be leaders. But you know, my dear friends,
there are leaders and there are those who lead. You can be a leader but you might not be leading. To be a leader means to lead by words and example, to be exemplary,
to edify, to inspire lives. All leaders therefore are called to mentor other leaders, so that they can find in us a leader that can truly enrich their lives. A priest or any leader for that matter must always lead the flock that is under his care to a richer life, to make their lives full,
not just physically, materially but to make sure that every human person achieves his full potential and is given all the necessary needs to become a holistic person. That is why as a priest, a very important job a function of a priest is to give sacraments, to celebrate sacraments because our people cannot be nurtured and flourish in life unless their spiritual life is strong, their moral life is well grounded. Then the success that they have will be seen in all other areas as well because he lives a life of integrity. And the priest is called to be a minister, especially the Eucharist, so that you can remain connected with the Lord. And after receiving Him, to offer your life too as a sacrifice for others, so that you'll be life-giving.
A priest is not just a minister of the sacraments. A priest is called to be a teacher.

All good shepherds must be teachers. We are called to form people, to guide them in the truth. If you are a parent, you have to ask yourselves what kind of values are you forming in your children. Are these the values of the world? So what values do you give to your children? Are you killing them morally,

spiritually, depriving them of the truth that leads to life?

There are many leaders in the world that succumb to the false values that are being promoted. Promoting the culture of death, advocating abortion, euthanasia,

absolute freedom, abusing others,
spreading fake news, promoting the culture of superficial love, instead of promoting strong marriages, strong relationships,

beautiful families. If you are truly a teacher, your students must be life-giving. If they become inward looking, individualistic and self-centred, then we have misled them.
We are that thief who has led them.

We have killed them. And the priest is precisely called to speak the truth. And that is why he is called to be a prophet as well. A prophet that speaks the truth.

A prophet that loves even his enemies. He must always be forgiving and compassionate.

One who does not retaliate against enemies. The world will always try to destroy their enemies. We don't. A good shepherd wins over his enemies. A good shepherd does not destroy the lives of his enemies. He comes to save lives.

Every life is important, even the enemy's life. We do not kill. That is why a good shepherd suffers patiently, sometimes misunderstood. Very often, we priests,

bishops have often been grossly misunderstood, even when we try to do good. And same too, I'm sure for you parents. How often your children misunderstood you. In spite of all the sacrifices you give, they are still not appreciative. I'm sure you parents know what it is like. When you have given your best and your children say not good enough. But we suffer in silence. We suffer because we love. Our love is unconditional. Where do we get such good shepherds today? Where do we get such good priests?

Many of you have complained to me that we are short of priests, especially local priests. And that is true. 1 priest in Singapore serves 2,000 active churchgoers. If you include the other two-third of Catholics who don't go to church on Sunday, that means at least 1 priest to 5,500 parishioners.

This is ridiculous. How can a priest reach out to 5,000 people?

How can a priest reach out to those who have left the church when he can't even cope with the demands of those who come to church? But where do we get them? They come from your family. They come from your community. Why don't you offer them?

Why do you offer everybody else's children except your own? And young men, you complain a lot - priests are not good enough,
not eloquent. Then you come and join us.

At the end the day, if there is a shortage of priests, what is the real problem?

Because the faith of the community is weak. This is the real reason. If the community's faith is strong, there will always be vocations. Priesthood is not a career. It's a calling. It's a life option. It's not something you choose.

It's rather God who has chosen you. And that is the reason why unless a young person has fallen in love with God,
he is baptised with the Holy Spirit, fire with the mission of the Lord, in love with Him,
he will do anything. That is why my dear brothers and sisters, what do you think is the secret to promote vocations?

My secret, my conviction is this - to build a vibrant, evangelising, missionary Church.

Because vocation is born from the community. If the community has no faith or the faith is weak, there will be no vocations. The sign of a community that is growing, that is anointed with the Spirit,
that is vibrant and really evangelising will bear fruit. And that fruit is vocation. So building a vibrant Church,

a living Church, a loving Church and a worshipping Church, that is the key to have more vocations. So what must we do?
Repent first and foremost by strengthening your faith life. The life of your faith affects the life of your children.
That is why many children lost faith today because parents have lost their faith.
Because they are not living their faith.

Otherwise your children would be inspired by you. Same thing too for us priests. If some people have lost their faith, it's because we priests do not live out our faith. Secondly, we need to encourage and support priests.
They are human beings. You need to give them encouragement and let them know that they are appreciated. That they have not given their lives in vain. That they have made a difference in your lives.

And that will help them to give even more.
And thirdly, you need to encourage your children in a very gentle way.
We need to help them to deepen their faith, their love for Jesus. And then gently tell them there is a possibility that the Lord could be calling you. But don't pressurise your children to become a priest.
That would be your vocation. That is not God's vocation. And finally, as the Lord says, pray to the Lord of the harvest.

Prayer is the one that helps us to connect with Jesus, feel for the community. Only those who are in touch with the sufferings of the world, in love for the Church, want to make a difference in their lives, want to help these people to find life to the fullest,
then they will offer their lives to be priests for the people of God. Please continue to pray for us and to pray for me as your chief shepherd, so that I can truly be life-giving.

