How many of us are ready to live the kind of lifestyle that Jesus has offered us in the Beatitudes? Most of us prefer to choose the lifestyle of the world. Because we want to be normal like the rest of the world. We don't want to be different. We are afraid to be different for fear of being ridiculed, persecuted,

marginalised. And what the world calls normal is actually abnormal. But the world is trying to normalise evil, normalise immorality as something normal.

The root cause of the current situation in the world, so much division, is not because of religious wars, but because of secularism. Secularism in itself pretends to be an ideology that safeguards the unity among all religions, because it proclaims neutrality.

But the real intention of secularism is not to promote freedom of religion.
It is freedom from religion. Take note.

They want to exclude, marginalise religions, so that religion will no longer be present in public life.

The world does not object if people in religion want to do good works.

But whatever good works they do, they must not display any religious symbols. They cannot speak about their faith.

Indeed my dear brothers and sisters,
secularism wants to take religion out of public life. So that the world is free from religion.

What does it mean to be the salt of the earth? Salt has three qualities. Salt is for purification, preservation and a catalyst for flavour.

And so to be the salt of the earth means to say, we must purify this world from evil, from the immoral values, from the selfish, self-centred, egoistic,
promiscuous way of life the world is advocating. To be the salt of the earth also means to say, we must preserve the right values, especially for this generation. Today, our young people,

they have been contaminated with the values of the world. We must teach our children to be gracious, to be polite.
But we ourselves must first be polite.

We must use gracious words, we must be respectful of others. If not, our children will pick up all these kind of negativities in their life. This is what we mean to preserve. And also to be a catalyst, to make a difference in the lives of others, to add flavour into the lives of others. Can we bring more joy,

hope, vision to our people? To add value, not to destroy life, not to destroy love.

Not only we are called to be the salt, we are called to be the light of the world. What does it mean to be the light of the world?

We are called to give glory to the Father.

Who are those who are afraid of the light? Those who do evil things, those who do shameful things. All shameful things are done in the dark. Although today because the world has normalised evil,
even shameful things that people do,

they like the whole world to be informed. Because people have lost shame.

Because the world has normalised what is shameful, what is wrong, to be something normal and good. Let us be careful.
Don'hink that just because we are the salt of the earth and the light of the world, we are doing God a favour, we are doing society a favour, we are so magnanimous. That is not true. If we are the salt of the earth and the light of the world, it is because we need to protect ourselves. The truth is that in life, we will lose what we have when we don't use them. So if you are the salt of the earth,
you are the light of the world, you must make use of this for your own good primarily,
and for the good of others. The greatest consequence of not being the salt of the earth and the light of the world, is our own destruction. Because we will be absorbed by the values of the world. There is no question of neutrality. Either you change the world,
or the world will change you. You have to decide. Do you want the world to change your family, change your children,

change society, or do you want to change society? By not speaking up on your faith, by not witnessing to Christ, by not living the Gospel life, we are giving a free rein to secularism. And so it's very important that for all of us in the mission, we never work alone. No Christian, no Catholic must witness alone. We must witness with the rest of the community. We need to support one another in witnessing. If you stand alone, you will succumb to the persecutions of the world. But if we stand together, we are always strong.

The reason why many people are not attracted to the Catholic faith is not because we have not witnessed enough. We have. But there are more counter witnesses in the Catholic Church.
Nominal Catholics who do not live their faith are telling the world, "My faith does not make a difference in my life.

Don't waste time." So if you want to change the world, let us first be the salt of the earth and the light of the world.

