It is important to understand that the ascension of Jesus, His ascent into Heaven is more symbolic than physical.

Because Heaven is not up there. That's the sky and beyond the clouds is outer space. The planet is a galaxy.

And so it's important for us, therefore,
in order to really grasp the meaning of this celebration and to apply it to our life,
then we need to understand ological meaning of this Feast of Ascension. Whether it is the Ascension or whether it is the Feast of the Resurrection, both are celebrations of the exaltation of Christ.
So on the Feast of the Resurrection, Easter,
Jesus was exalted, raised up from the dead. On the Feast of the Ascension,

Jesus was raised up even higher to the skies.

So we have the symbol of being elevated,
being exalted. On Easter, we celebrate the resurrection of the body of Jesus.
And this body,

of course, was a transfigured body,
a resurrected body. But this body was also in continuity with the earthly Jesus.

But precisely because this body is transfigured, not everybody could see the Risen Lord.
In fact some could not recognise Him unless with  the eyes of faith. The transfigured body is not hindered. It can go through the doors and can vanish and can reappear. So the resurrection,
therefore, speaks about the glorification of Jesus' body,
what happened to Him when he was raised from the dead.
The Feast of the Ascension adds another dimension to the exaltation of Jesus.

Because the resurrection of Jesus just proved that Jesus is alive. Jesus is truly the one appointed by the Father and therefore we proclaim Him the Son of God.
But what is the implication of this now He is exalted into Heaven?
And in the Creed, we say He is seated the right hand of the Father.
The Father has no hand because the Father is spirit.
The right hand means to say, sharing in the authority of the Heavenly Father,

sharing in the power of the Heavenly Father.

When Jesus returned to his Heavenly Father, He resumes all His divine powers and authority that He gave up when He came to earth in His humanity.
So this is what we are celebrating. In the Feast of the Ascension,
Jesus now rules over the whole world. And not only that.
Jesus has come to establish His Kingdom,

the Kingdom that he started. But is still not yet completed.

In principle, He has accomplished.
But in reality, it is still going on.

And how would He do it? Through His Church.

His Church is His body and he is the Head.
So you can see now that the Church and Jesus, we are one. So when we say Jesus is in Heaven, we are also there.
But because we are on earth, Jesus is also with us because He is fully human and fully divine.
Jesus is now present even more real, a permanent way in His Church. We have become the presence of God, the presence of Christ.
That is why the Church is a sacrament of Jesus, just as Jesus is the sacrament of the Father,

the sign, the presence of the Father.
So when people see the Church,

they are supposed to encounter Jesus. That is why from the Church, we have the seven sacraments,
the means by which the Church continues to baptise, to anoint, to forgive and to nurture. And how is this happening? How can the Church become the sacrament of Jesus?

Only when we are identified with Him.
And we become identified with Jesus when His Spirit lives in us. This is the power.

The same Holy Spirit that empowered Jesus in His ministry to perform miracles, to preach in the power of the Lord,

the same Spirit is given to us all.
That was what the Lord promised. He said,

"You will do even greater works than i did."

Because now, Jesus is not working alone.
Jesus is working in every member of His Church.
So the wonderful thing about the Ascension is,
Jesus is going to give us the power.

The power to do what He did. And this power is the Holy Spirit. If you have no passion,

if you are not bold, means to say your docility to the Holy Spirit, your experience of the Holy Spirit is weak. Because if you really have the Holy Spirit, the Holy Spirit will drive you,
as He drove Jesus in His mission.

My dear brothers and sisters, this is so beautiful to know that we are all called to be the witnesses,

the sacrament of Jesus. We are called to be the salt of the earth, the light of the world now because Jesus is in me and in you.

And we are not doing all this on our own accord, on our own strength but by the power of the Holy Spirit.
We should never give up hope. We should have courage.
Because Jesus needs every one of us to make this world,
this place, a place of love, of justice, of peace and of prosperity. That all of us will be happy in this world. That is why the Church must continue to fight against the secular trends of individualism, materialism, consumerism.

We need to fight against these because they are destroying humanity,

breaking up families. And we need really to proclaim the truth about Jesus,

His life and His love.

