As we celebrate the Feast of Mary the Mother of the Church, then we need to integrate this Feast with the Feast of Pentecost, with the Feast of the Church. Her role as a Mother has always been anticipated in Scriptures by God Himself. Theologians often lament that the Church is too masculine. We have Jesus, we have the Father but we lack the feminine dimension of the Church. And so, Jesus in that sense helped the Church to become more feminine by providing us Mary, His mother to be our guide, to be the one who can lead us closer to Him and to his Father. The role of Mary as the Mother of the Church was already anticipated at the very beginning of His ministry at Cana in Galilee. You remember when Mary interceded for the wedding couple and told Jesus they had no wine. And Jesus response was, "Woman, my hour has not yet come." If my hour has not yet come,

your hour as the Mother of the Church has not yet come as well. Mary is the Mother of the Church, beginning from the fact at His death, the Church was to be born.

Therefore Mary was called to be the Mother of the Church. The word, "woman", is not a derogatory term as some people misunderstand. The word, "woman", in St John's Gospel refers to Mary as the Mother of Jesus, and Mary as the Mother of the Church. Because the word, "woman", means someone who gives birth. That is why it'o appropriate today when we celebrate this Memorial of Mary the Mother of the Church ,we are told that we must bring Mary into our home.

That is what the Lord wants for each one of us. How could there be a Church without a Mother? How could there be new birth, new children without a mother? And that is why every Catholic must have some devotion to our Blessed Mother in some ways. Whether we pray the rosary, we say the Angelus, or we meditate on Mary's discipleship, or we have devotion to Our Lady of Fatima, her Immaculate Heart, it doesn't matter. What matters is that every Catholic, in order to be a full mature Catholic, in order to benefit the most from the Scriptures, is that we meditate also on Mary. Because Mary was very close to our Lord as the Mother. And this role of Mary as the Mother was already pre foreshadowed even at the very beginning of Scripture in Genesis 3:15. Remember the Lord told the devil that there will be a battle between a woman and Satan,
and the woman's offspring and Satan's offspring. And precisely, this woman is Mary. Mary is the one who will help us to fight against the evil one. And we will be victorious with the assistant of Mary because Mary is the one who will lead us to Jesus, to imitate Him because Mary is the perfect disciple of the Lord. Mary who is the one who does the will of God.

Mary is the one who gives birth, first to the Word of God in her heart, before she gave birth to Jesus in the flesh.
Immediately after the death of Jesus,

Mary assumed the role of being the Mother of the Church. She was certainly instrumental in helping the Apostles, the early Church to remain strong while they await the Holy Spirit. So my dear brothers and sisters, let us too without fail, turn to Mary every day in our life,
for Mary is our Mother. She is the Mother of the Church. We must pray to her, ask for her to intercede for us. And most of all, not just ask her to pray for us, more importantly we must be like her. Mary must be our model of true discipleship.

