Many non-Catholics and non-believers,
they find it ridiculous and absurd for us Catholics to believe that the bread and wine that have been transformed into His Body and Blood at every Eucharistic celebration, is truly His Real Presence,

because what they see is just a wafer,
what they see is just wine. And we even worship this wafer and this Blood. And so for the world, it is unthinkable.

So, right from the outset, we need to be clear that when we speak of the bread and wine being transformed into His Body and Blood, it must not be understood in a physicalistic manner. That is to say,
we are not saying the bread and the wine is literally the flesh and blood of our Lord. Because if that was so, then certainly we will be cannibals. That's why you know sometimes Catholics lament. They say you know, it's not fair because you all priests consume the bread and the wine. You receive the Body and Blood. We only receive the Eucharist, the bread.

We only receive half Jesus. And also, we have examples you know, Catholics will tell me when you receive the Eucharist, you cannot bite the Host. Because if you bite, the blood of Jesus will ooze out from the bread because that is His flesh.

This is what I mean by a physicalistic thinking. What we mean about the Real Presence of Jesus in the bread and wine,
what we are saying is the transfigured,

the Risen Lord, body, soul and spirit. The entire person is present in the bread and wine. So when we receive the bread and wine, we are receiving Jesus in His humanity, in His divinity, but a transfigured Lord, a transfigured body. And it is when we receive Him, He will live in us.
Because that is how we can draw life from Him, because we are united with Him.
So if people who are non-Catholics do not believe in the Real Presence of our Lord, it is understandable. Why? Because something is lacking - faith. Without faith, it is simply impossible to believe in the Real Presence of our Lord in the Eucharist. To have faith in the Real Presence, presupposes we first must have faith in Jesus as the Son of the Living God. But how can you arrive at faith in Jesus as the Son of God? You need to encounter the Risen Lord. Only because the Lord is risen, then you can believe in the Incarnation as well. If the Lord is not risen, you cannot believe in the incarnation, that Jesus when He was on earth, He was truly God and truly man. And we could believe that Jesus was really the incarnated Lord because of the signs He gave. He had power over nature. He walked on the seas. He calmed the storms. He multiplied the loaves for five thousand. He raised the dead back to life. If Jesus had power over nature, in the same way He has power to change bread and wine into His Body and Blood.
So if you believe in the power of Jesus over nature, surely we can believe that when Jesus said, when we eat this bread and drink this wine, you are taking His Body and His Blood. So at the end of the day, faith in the Eucharist is dependent on our relationship with the Lord.

Faith requires trust. Trust is only possible when you have a personal relationship with Him. When we receive the Body of Christ, Christians who are so United with Jesus becomes His Body. That is why when we hurt our brothers and sisters, we are hurting Jesus more than just biting the Eucharist. It is not biting the Eucharist that will hurt Jesus. It is when we hurt our brothers and sisters, because he is one with all Christians. Intellectual discourse or intellectual discussion about Jesus as Lord and God will go nowhere.

Only a person who has encountered the Risen Lord will stand by Him. Otherwise intellectual faith in times of trials,

your faith will be shaken. We are called to trust in Him. When we trust in Him, then everything is possible. My dear brothers and sisters, today as I celebrate my 35th anniversary as a priest, 35 years is indeed a long time. And to stay committed as a priest, it is a more important consideration. It's not how long we live,

how many years of anniversary we are celebrating. It is whether when we are celebrating every anniversary,
we are still committed as it was in the beginning or even more. And what is the secret of my priesthood? It is the love for the Eucharist as a Sacrament,
and the love for the Word of God.

That's why every morning I get up at 4:30 because without the Word of God, you cannot carry on, because there are so many challenges in life. There are so many issues. And not to say everyday you feel the presence of God. No, there are many days I don't feel God's presence at all. But it is the Word that continues to nurture me and to strengthen me, and to give me hope and give me strength, and to guide me in my decisions. That is why my dear brothers and sisters, if you want your faith to be strong, you need to spend at least an hour before the Blessed Sacrament or at least one hour with your Word of God,
with the Bible. And if possible, receive Him in the Eucharist. That is the source of our faith. That's why my motto as the Bishop, is 'Ut Vivant', (That they may live).
Because the Eucharist tells me the only way to live is to die. There is no other way. That's why people ask me, why do you keep on doing and giving yourself day-in day-out? Because there is no other way to live. The only way to live is to be like Jesus, be bread broken for the world.

