So today, the scripture readings speak about the trials of life. All of us, as St James said, "You will always have your trials but when they come, try to treat them as a happy privilege". How can we regard our trials as a privilege? Most of us when we carry sufferings and crosses in our lives, we feel burdened. No one wants to suffer. And this is where it is the cause of our suffering and make our suffering even greater, because we fail to realise that being a Christian is to carry the cross. Jesus in the Gospel tells us, "If you were to be my follower, take up your cross and come after me". The Lord is not asking us to take up His cross but ours. But the real mistake that we make is that we just take up the cross and we carry it on our shoulder but we don't follow Jesus. So if you want to deal with the trials of life meaningfully and positively, it is important that we must follow Jesus in the way He carried His cross. And this is very important because many of us when we are going through trials in life, we tend to rely on our own strength, on our own ingenuity. We are lamenting that we have so many burdens to carry, family problems demented parents, elderly who are sick,
our children who are difficult to handle.

And whatever decisions that we make, we know we cannot please everyone. And sometimes we get discouragement, we are distracted,

we cannot focus on our work, on what we are doing. And this is because we rely on ourselves. This is precisely what happened in today's Gospel. The Pharisees,

they did not have faith in Jesus. They did not have trust in Him. And that is the reason why they asked for signs. And Jesus said, "Why does this generation demand a sign?" Actually they had many signs already. Jesus had healed a paralytic, had healed the demoniac. Jesus had multiplied the loaves for five thousand. Jesus had healed the deaf man. He had already manifested many signs and yet they were still asking for signs because they were not open to faith. And truly when we look at our lives, when we are carrying crosses, the Lord has helped us all this while. That is why we are still here today. And we forget. We think that this time God is not present.
But He has always been present and He has been present with us in the way that we often do not recognise. And that is why today we need to pray as St James says, wisdom. St James says, "If there is any one of you who needs wisdom, he must ask God who gives to all freely and ungrudgingly. What is this wisdom? The wisdom to look at sufferings, to look at the challenges of life in the way the Lord looks at them. And that is how the Lord looks at all trials of life. As St James says, "You understand that your faith is only put to the test to make you patient. But patience too has its practical results, so that you will become fully developed, complete with nothing missing". So the trials of life are meant to help us to be purified, to grow in faith, to be strengthened in faith, so that our faith in Jesus will be real. A faith that will withstand the storms of life. If we have a faith that is easily shaken by the trials of life, that is a weak faith. That is not a faith that is enough to help us to be happy in life. And so we need to pray for the wisdom of God. That in everything that happens to us, there is always a reason. Everything that happens to us, there's a greater good that come out of it. It is just like this COVID-19 virus when we cancelled the Masses. Many were very sad at this point and rightly so. But with the cancellation of Masses, it did not mean therefore that the people were without God, or without the presence of Jesus. In fact, yesterday we received so many positive appreciation and remarks, that following the online broadcasting of the Mass, many of them felt closer to the Lord,

more than at times present in the church because they are distracted. At their own homes, they are able to worship quietly,
attentively. And most of all, some have shared that when they had the online broadcast, the streaming of the Mass at home, those people who could not go to church and even those lapsed Catholics,

they also attended Mass with their families.
And so, God has His own ways to reach out to us. We should not stereotype how the way the Lord wants uch each one of us. Even in our trials, even in our deprivation of the Eucharist, actually it helps us to be more conscious not to take the Eucharist for granted. And for Singaporeans especially Catholics here,
we have so many churches nearby. We often take the Eucharist for granted. We don't go for Mass. It's only when the Mass is taken away, then we realise there is a vacuum in our lives. So not all is grey. Even in difficult times like that, the Lord is showing us His love. And so today, let us praise and thank God that we will continue to use these sufferings, this difficulties, these challenges to remind us that life is fragile. And that is what St James says, "It is right for the poor brother to be proud of his high rank". But he said, "Look at the flowers. What looks so beautiful now disappears. It is the same with the rich man. His business goes on.

He himself perishes". In life nothing stays. Life is fragile. So we must appreciate life. We must not take life for granted. If there are sufferings, the sufferings are meant to help us to grow. If we do not have sufferings, they are meant to teach us how to love and how to be prepared for the time, when the time comes when we will have to suffer. So we praise and thank God and we continue to trust in Him,
doing His will. Because it is only when we have faith in Him, then this faith as St James tell us, "A faith therefore that will not allow us to be tossed by the waves of the sea." Amen.

