It is important that we have a strong foundation. If we don't have a strong foundation, then when the wind blows,
when the storms come, we will be swept away.

When temptations come,

we will easily succumbed. And this is particularly true for those of us who are nominal Catholics. This is the saddest part for me as a Bishop, to know that we have 383,000 Catholics, only one third are attending Mass regularly. Of the one third, I do not know how many are really truly disciples of the Lord, or they are just Sunday goers, once a week.
We think that just attending Mass once a week, we say our morning prayers, night prayers, we try to do some good, our faith will stand. No. When trials come,
when the challenges of life come, when tragedies strike, you will give up the faith completely. Some of us think that just by being active in Church, in ministry, doing this and doing that, we think our faith is strong. Superstitious practices, empty rituals and just external works, they do not mean that we have a strong faith. A strong faith must be founded first and foremost on Christ who is the rock. So if you don't have a strong foundation in God, your life is at risk. Not only your life. All your loved ones, all those people under your care. It is true for me particularly as a shepherd.

If my faith is not strong,

I will destroy the faith of thousands.
How am I to appear before God, when I know I have destroyed the faith of thousands.
We are accountable. That is the reason why we need to really, truly build a strong foundation of our life in God.

What is this foundation?

The foundation is really that first and foremost, we must be founded on the Word of God. Jesus is the Word of God. Again,
I've been saying many, many times, but unfortunately, Catholics especially,
they don't value the Word of God. They don't read the Word of God. They say the Bible is the Word of God. I think it's all bluff. If the Bible is really the Word of God, you will read it every day. Oh, you have got time for newspaper. You've got plenty of time to read the internet, all kinds of rubbish news, fake news, you read.
Politics, economics, finance. You've got all time to read all these. Word of God, we have no time. If the Bible is the Word of God, you will find guidance from it.
You'll seek inspiration from it. You'll ask the Word of God to direct your life. When you are down, when you are depressed, you look up to the Word of God. What does the Lord say to you? Not only you must be grounded in the Word of God, we need to read it, we need to study it and we need to share it. But how many Catholics do that? Yeah, they say a few prayers. And these prayers are prayed like a parrot without iinteriorising what we are saying even. It's just saying some prayers. We don't mean it. It doesn't come from our heart. Prayers that don't come from our heart will not change us. But it's not even enough just to read the Word of God.
We need to put into action. To act on the Word of God means to make sure that every time when we pray the Word of God,

we ask ourselves, am I living it?
Examining my own life? Every day we need to examine our life. If not, there is no spiritual progress. If not, we'll be repeating the same mistakes  over and over again. To act on the Word of God is to make Jesus our Lord, the Lord of our life. We must be disciples all the time. That is why your faith must be growing. If it's not growing, it does not mean that your faith is stagnating. If your faith is not growing, it means it is dying. There is no in between.

And you have to ask yourselves every day,
are you growing?

If you're not growing, it means you are dying in your faith and you will ultimately hurt yourself. Come to Jesus,
the living God, the rock of our life.

