Those of us who are leaders, very often we are so preoccupied with our daily responsibilities and duties. We spend so much time trying to get things done,

trying to put things right,

that we do not have time to think of our successor who could take our place.

In other words, we don't do succession planning.

And this is because we only focus on our immediate responsibilities. This is the weakness of many leaders. They can be brilliant.
They can be hardworking. They can be people who achieve a lot. But because they don't have succession planning, the moment they retire, whatever plans that they have started collapsed. And it's important for us as leaders, always to remind ourselves. Leadership is always transitional. The office that we undertake is never for life. It is only for a period of time. Responsible leaders must always plan and intentionally looking out for leaders to succeed them.

This is an equally important responsibility of good leaders. How then do we choose leaders to succeed us? The most important quality is their commitment. If they are half hearted,

if their passion and their zeal is not there,

they will end up serving themselves.

A potential leader must be willing to learn.

The problem is that many want to be leaders, but they don't want to be disciples. They think they know everything. They are arrogant. They are presumptuous. Such potential leaders, if ever they become leaders, will destroy the whole organisation. Because he listens to no one. He only listens to himself. He doesn't rely on the past experience of the leaders before him.

He only thinks that he knows everything. So if we find someone who cannot be mentored, he cannot be a leader. A good disciple must always be humble enough to ask. In choosing a good leader, the leader must have the right motivation. If our successor have the wrong motivation, it is for self glory, it is about himself, it is about recognition, it is about reward, then Jesus said, "You have already received your reward." A leader is not concerned about himself. He is always concerned about the people that he serves and giving glory to God. A leader who is ambitious, wanting more power and glory,

he will destroy all those people who work with him. How do you know you have the right motivation? When you can serve God freely, happily, even when you are not recognised. Whether people know or not,
it doesn't matter. What is important is that you know that you have done the will of God. You know that your conscience is clear and you are happy that you have made a difference in the lives of people. You have given glory to God.
That is all we are concerned.

That is a humble and selfless leader. And finally, to be a good leader means a person must be ready to wait. Some people are impatient, wanting to be the leader. Patience. Because when it is the time for you to take over, the Lord will make it happen. If God has chosen you to be the leader, when the time comes, you will be chosen. So be patient. Because some people, they are just waiting to take over because of ambition, glory. And you will destroy yourself.

