The Catholic Church is more than 2,000 years old. And as a Christian church, not only we are the oldest but we have the largest membership of more than 1.3 billion Catholics in the whole world. So the Catholic Church has a long tradition,

a long history. But at the same time, the Catholic Church is like a giant, very slow to move because of the size of our Church. And so the Catholic Church unfortunately, we adapt to the changes in the world very slowly. We are not meeting up to the challenges of our times. This was a same challenge in the early Church as well. You must remember that the first Christians were Jews and they were still worshipping in the synagogue. And they thought that Jesus was the fulfilment of the promises of the prophets. But in the mind of the early Christians who were Jews, they were still considering themselves primarily as Jews first and then Christians. So in other words for the early Church, Christianity is the fulfilment of Judaism. But for the Jews, they are first Jews, then Christian.

So in their mind, you have to be a Jew first before you become a Christian.

That was why in the early Church, St Paul had these problems with the Christian Jews because they insisted that those people who accepted into the faith, the Gentiles, must be circumcised and follow the Jewish customs. This is where the mistake lies.
For them, they thought they were not actually Jewish Christians, they were Christian Jews. In other words, Jew then Christian. But thanks to the Holy Spirit,
the Holy Spirit broadened the minds of the Jewish Christians and let them know that we are first and foremost Christians, then we are a Jew,  then we are an Indian, a Chinese, an Indonesian. What makes us a church, a Christian is believing in Christ. Race, language,

culture, that is secondary. For us, we don't only call ourselves Christian. We call ourselves Catholics. Why? Because we are universal. Because the Catholic faith, the Christian faith does not belong just to a particular race or a culture. Jesus comes for all. That's why we call ourselves Catholic Christians. That is what define us. The Church was forced to change because of the persecution. Today my dear brothers and sisters, this is the same question we really need to ask ourselves.

We are under some form of persecution.
Secularism is one of them. COVID-19 pandemic is a form of persecution. But my dear brothers and sisters, how do we respond to these new challenges? Do we want to still continue with our old ways of worshipping, old ways of catechesis, the old ways of evangelisation? Or do we have the courage to adapt, to make changes, to make use of technology to find new ways to reach out to our people? Even certain small traditions of the Church, are we willing to abandon, to change?
Even the structures and the governance of the Church? If we still want to maintain the same old ways as what we did 2,000 years ago -  I'm not talking about those big traditions that cannot be changed,

those essential doctrines. I'm talking about practices. If we do not change these practices, we will be outdated. We cannot grow. And so this is the real danger facing the Church. If we are not responsive to the times, we will become just a little group and the group will get smaller. But if we are courageous, if we take the initiative.
That's what during this COVID-19 pandemic, it's important that the Church does some soul-searching of the ways we are evangelising, of the ways we are leading people to God. You know, there are some of you who asked me, "Bishop, will the online Mass continue after the COVID-19 pandemic? I think so and I hope so. At least to cater to those people who cannot go to church for one reason or another, rather than deprive them of encountering Christ. It is not the ideal of course. But that is why we need to think through during this COVID-19 pandemic, how we are going to reach out beyond the traditional means that we are used to.

