In our Archdiocese, our vision is to build a vibrant, evangelising and missionary Church. When we speak of the vibrancy of the Church, we are thinking of a Church that is anointed with the Holy Spirit, full of activities, outreach programs, formation programs, anointed worship and strong fellowship,

plus outreach to the poor, to those who do not know Christ. But what does it mean to build an evangelising and missionary Church? These two terms do not seem to be so obvious. In fact, most of us tend to use the terms 'evangelisation' and 'mission'

in a synonymous way. I think it is important for us to try to understand what we mean by evangelisation and mission. Both evangelisation and mission have the same finality. That is to say,
the goal is to bring people to know Jesus, to love Him and to glorify Him. In the work of evangelisation and mission,

we are called to announce Jesus as the Way,
the Truth and the Life, by our words and of course by our actions. We are called to proclaim the truth about Jesus. At the same time, we are called to witness this truth, not just by words alone. Most of all, by works of love. Because no one would believe that we are Christ's disciples unless we are able to show that we love them the way the Lord Jesus loves us. Love is transforming. Love is healing. In this sense, every Christian, every Catholic is called to be an evangeliser. By virtue of our baptism, we are called to make Christ known, felt and experienced in and through us. At times when the opportunities are available, we must announce Christ explicitly to those who have not yet known Him. In the case of evangelisation, it is something that we do, not with a deliberate intention.

We are just living out our Christian life unconsciously every day, so that people might come to meet Christ in us. So in that sense, there is no definite purpose in the work of evangelisation. Just being present to others, so that Christ will be known. Mission is when we go forth with a deliberate intention. Mission is when we are sent by the Church. Every organisation therefore must have a vision and mission. So mission flows out from our vision of what we are called to do, what we are called to build. Vision is the destination and the mission is how we arrive at it. And so when we are assigned for a particular task,

a particular goal, that is called 'mission'. Our focus is clear of what we are doing.

It's intentional, in other words. Whereas evangelisation is unintentional. It is just we living out our Christian life and hopefully some people will notice us and then come to know Jesus. Whereas in a mission, it is focused on announcing Christ. If you are in the humanitarian organisation, then even though we go and do social work or humanitarian work, it is with the intention that people will come to know Christ, once they receive our kindness, our aid.

Then there are those people who go to other countries with the explicit mission of announcing Jesus. This is called 'mission'.
This is what is sadly missing in the Church today. After Vatican II, we have lost our sense of mission. In the previous days, I have spoken about how non- Catholics also could be saved. Those who follow their conscience,
searching God sincerely. Vatican II says these can be saved as well. And as a result, many Catholics today,

they don't see the sense of the urgency of the mission. You notice before Vatican II,

we have so many missionaries being sent all over the world to save souls because they thought that if they do not know Christ and if they were not baptised, they will be condemned. And so the urgency. But many people have misinterpreted Vatican II, saying for this reason since everybody could be saved then there is no need to proclaim Christ anymore. On the contrary, there is a greater urgency to proclaim Christ because salvation is not just at the end of our lives. Salvation begins here and now. We want to lead everyone to know Jesus. To live the good life that He has promised us. To have a share of this eternal life, living a meaningful, purposeful life,
a joyful life even while we are on this earth. It is for this reason, my dear brothers and sisters, today we need prophets. We have also forgotten the Office of Prophets, unfortunately. Today the Office of Prophets is assimilated into the role of a priest. The Office of Prophets was an office that stood alone in the early Church. Prophets are necessary to announce to the Church, to give direction, to give strategy, to help the Church to focus. And so I think it's very important that today we must reclaim this Office of Prophets. Today our laypeople, our priests, our religious must once again be prophetic. Be prophetic in helping the Church to discern where the mission is needed, how do we go about this mission in our times. Because the truth is, there'till many people who are searching for meaning and purpose in life. They are searching for God. And so this mission must continue. Just as the Father sent Jesus, Jesus sent the Apostles, the Apostles in the name of the Bishop today sends you forth to be the ones who bring Jesus to them.

