Obedience to God comes before obedience to men. How does it work out for us today? Today we are living in a very secular country with a secular form of government. Can we apply this principle in our daily life living? The truth is that in this society that we live in,
it is not ruled by faith. It is ruled solely by reason, at least it claims to be. Laws are made purely by reason and based on empirical facts. It cannot be based on faith because we all do not share the same faith. And so reason alone seems to be the only way to bring people together. If we do not believe in God then the human reason is all we have in determining what is good and what is evil. But my dear brothers and sisters, if we appeal to reason alone, is reason the surest way of living in the truth?

If reason is the basis in making decisions then why do we differ? We take the example - we cannot kill our fellow human beings but we can kill animals. Why are we different from animals? What is the basis for us to say that the human life is different from other lives, if not based on the very fact that it's actually a biblical interpretation of human beings?
That we are created in the image and likeness of God and therefore we are different from the rest of the animals. And that is why we cannot take life because life belongs to God who is the author of human life. But if you do not believe in God then what is the basis? That is the reason why today the world is very confused. e hand, the principle is clear. We cannot kill our fellow human beings. But they advocate abortion, they advocate euthanasia.
Another simple issue - the question of marriage. Why is it that some countries practice polygamy, some monogamy, some countries marriage is between a man and woman, for some, even same sex are allowed?

Who decides it is right, who decides it is wrong? Over the years, we have changed our values. My question therefore is this - what is the basis for these values? Can human reason alone justify what we do?
If human reason can justify, it's a common ground, then all of us should agree on every principle because we are using human reason. So how does the world arrive at truth today? It's not by human reason.

The world arrives at truth by finding a consensus. What is the popular opinion?

What is the public opinion? That is the basis for truth today. Truth is no more an objective reality. Truth is something very subjective. So today we arrive at truth, not because it's the right thing but because everybody wants it. Everybody says same-sex union is correct, so we will have same-sex union. We make it a law. So it is a question of consensus. It's not a question of principles, a question of whether it is right or wrong because using human reason, we fall into relativism. There is no way to find the truth. And the other question is this - then how do you decide the consensus? Who will bring about the consensus? Those who have power, those who have money, those who have influence.

They use technology, they use social media to influence the opinions of people, to condition the opinions of people. He who speaks loudest will be the one that is heard. And that becomes the consensus for truth. It is important for us to ask ourselves, where then can we find the truth? If the truth is by consensus, there can also be consensus to do evil.

What is our Christian response? Our Christian response remains the same.

We have to be law-abiding citizens because we are living in a secular society, in a democratic world. At the same time, it does not stop us from speaking the truth. It does not stop us from engaging humanity, society and those in authority.

It is when we refuse to dialogue, it is only when we are cowards to speak our mind to help humanity to search the truth, this is where we are faulted.

Keeping quiet, keeping silent is doing a disservice, not just to ourselves, but to society.
The Church is not against society. The Church is not against  society. We are for happiness.
We are for true joy. So when we articulate what we have heard from the Scriptures, what the Lord has taught us,

eternal truth, we want to share with the world. If the world cannot accept, it is up to them. But it does not stop us therefore from having the obligation to communicate the truth for the good of everyone. We can only do this if we obey the Holy Spirit. We can only do this if we ourselves are living in the truth. So we pray, my dear brothers and sisters, that we will continue to live in the truth and to continue to communicate this truth to all men and women for the good of everyone.

