Faith is never a blind faith. We are not called to believe without understanding.

There is the danger of being incredulous.
Although faith transcends reason, faith never go against reason. And that is why it is important in coming to faith, the Church always speaks about the signs of faith, the marks of faith. There is the question of credibility of faith. Otherwise,
there is the danger we become naive.

We believe in everything that people say.
Actually faith is progressive. Faith is never static. Faith is dynamic. Faith is not between belief or unbelief. Faith,

there is a continuum between unbelief and belief. Your faith is either growing each day or weakening each day.
So there is no question of fixating your faith. Faith is not something that you possess. It's a living encounter,

living relationship with the Lord. And so for us to grow in faith, it is important that we need to see the signs.

And this is true also in human relationship. When someone says that he loves us, then we need to see the signs.
But the signs are signs. Signs are not proof. Signs are indicators that this person who claims he loves us could be true, because he demonstrates signs of love. But he still could be cheating us.

We will never know. So, at the end of the day, even with all the signs, we still need to make a leap of faith in the person whom we think loves us. So there is no question of proving a person's love. We will only know in time to come.

Even the spouse you are married today,
will that spouse be faithful to you until deathbed? We will never know. So,
this requires faith. Every day, even loving your spouse is an act of faith.
That 's why it'o important that in a human relationship, husband and wife,
children, parents, friends, we must keep offering the signs. Otherwise, the person begins to think, perhaps, I have lost that person's love. So, signs are very important. Why do we need signs?

Simply because most of us, we are wounded. If we are sceptical, It is because of past negative experiences in life. You know, there are some people in life, no matter how much you love them,
how much you show your love, the person always doubt. And some of these people,
they can be your enemies even, no matter you try to be nice to them, they are always suspicious. And why? Because they have very traumatic experiences in the past. And it makes them so difficult to trust again. Because they have been cheated many, many times perhaps. And so they are afraid to trust. They are afraid to be vulnerable. It takes a lot of patience, time, energy, constant affirmation, until one day the person breaks out of that fear. And that is why it'o important, my dear brothers and sisters, we need to support each other in our faith. When the person is down and out, when you feel very lonely in your journey in life, you need the support of the community to strengthen your faith. Because if we walk alone,

our faith is weak. Even the Bishop is weak. The Bishop also needs the support.

That's why we pray for the Bishop and the Pope at every Mass. Because if the Bishop's faith failed, there will be great scandals and many people will also lose their faith. So, faith can never be taken for granted. But you notice, those of us who are great sceptics, they make great witnesses. You notice those who are so opposed to the Catholic Church, the Catholic faith, one day, when the grace of God is given to them, they discover the beauty of the Catholic faith, their lives are changed radically. And those lapsed Catholics, when converted, re-evangelised, their faith is strong. And they become great witnesses. Great sinners always make great saints. That is why cradle Catholics, not all of course, in general,
they make poor witnesses of their faith,

because they don'reasure it, because they never search for it. They never pay a price for it. Anything that is given free, unfortunately, people don'reasure, until we truly pay a price for our faith.

