For many of us,
our hearts are always troubled with so much anxieties, fears in life. Things are changing so fast.

We are troubled by the current situation in the world. We are worried about our financial situation, about our health,

about our jobs, about the value of our stocks.

So the whole situation in the world is really volatile.

In our own domestic front, we feel very cooped-in.

We are stifled. We cannot go out of our houses.

Those of us who have small houses and big families, and if we do not have a good relationship with our family members,

this gets  stifling,
Many of us, we cannot connect with our friends,
with our loved ones and also with God during this time.
We feel alone. So long as we are in this world, we will always have trials,
challenges, difficulties.

No one can escape from carrying the crosses of daily life.

For many of us, we feel that we are carrying the cross alone by ourselves, as if the weight of the whole world is on our shoulders and people do not understand us, the struggles we are going through. On the surface,
we look happy, we look alright. But many of us deep in our hearts are struggling,
living in fear, in anxiety.

If we don't have to suffer alone, then at least we can overcome. For some people,
sufferings and challenges make them stronger,
wiser, smarter and better.

For some, when they encounter sufferings,
they are crushed because they carry their sufferings alone.
That is why those of you who have loved ones,
you are very close to someone in your life whom you depend for support, for strength,

for encouragement and even for your needs,

especially your emotional needs.
And when this person is taken away because of circumstances, because of illness, because of death,
it is hard to bear. That is why i could empathise with those people in bereavement. When they have lost their loved ones, it'o painful .
And sometimes they just cannot carry on without them. The Lord is with us,

in our struggles, in our pains. He is not that far away as we think. When we have the love of Christ in us,

we can overcome everything, every trial.
He said, "There are many rooms in my Father's house."
Where are these rooms? Jesus is not taking us to another place. Heaven is not a place per se.
If we say it is a place, the place is in the person.
The place is in the heart of Jesus.

Jesus says, "I am the Way, the Truth and the Life. No one can come to the Father except through me." Jesus is bringing us to his Father to rest in His bosom. Anyone who is with the Father,

who shares his life when he is loved,
he is always secure. He does not have to be frightened because the Father is the place where we find intimacy.
You know, when we are in the intimacy of someone whom we love,
there is deep security. We can just be ourselves.
We know we are loved. We know we are not judged.
This is the kind of intimacy that provides us the security,
the emotional, the spiritual strength that we need.
Blessed are those of you who have found such a person in your life.
If not, then God is that person.

He give us fullness of life, fullness of love.

That is the reason why if you want to find peace,

rest your heart in the Lord.
To rest your heart in the Lord is to attain ultimate truth and ultimate love.

All the questions of life, why are we here, what we are doing here,

where we are going, why is there suffering? All these riddles of life are answered. The truth is answered. What is the truth? The truth is nothing else but love. Love is the answer to everything in life.
For all that we are, for all that we will be, it is love.
Why are we here? It is for love.

Where will we go to?
With love, with God.

So my dear brothers and sisters, knowing this, therefore,

we cannot rely on our own strength.
Don'rust in yourself. We cannot rely on ourselves.
Feelings will change. Feelings cannot last.
But trust remains. That is why we are called to trust God entirely.
Put our total trust in Him. In good times and in bad,
the Lord will be there. And we know He is always there.
Even in our storms in life, God is there.

And how are we so certain? Because precisely, Jesus is the Way, the Truth and the Life.
Jesus is the one who reveals to us who the Father is.
Jesus is the one who reveals to us that the Father is unconditional love and mercy. And how do we know?
It is because of the passion, the death and resurrection of our Lord that establishes Him truly as the Son of God.
Do not let your hearts be troubled. Why?

Because the Lord is coming to us in a new way.

How? Because of His resurrection and ascension.

He is going to Heaven to bring us the Holy Spirit.

He is going to rest in us. Anyone who receives the Holy Spirit, the Spirit of love which is the Spirit of His Father, then God will make His home in us. So it's not we are going to the home of the Father. The Father is coming to our home.

Because anyone who welcomes God,
welcomes the Father, he is at home.

That is why, "there are many rooms in my Father's house." It's not to say that God don't have enough rooms.
The problem is we don't have enough room for Him.
We don't make space for Him, that is the problem.
If only you'll open your heart to welcome Him into your life,
you will find peace, love and joy even in the midst of all our problems in life.

