Being a Christian in the world today, as it was in the past, things have never changed. Christians somehow are always being persecuted. If the Lord Himself had been persecuted, don'hink that as His disciples, we will be exempted. This is the price of being a Christian,
unfortunately. For those who truly want to live the Gospel life, they had to face persecutions, oppositions. More so in this world we are living today. A very secular, relativistic world where the values of the world are oppposed to the Christian Gospel because they promote the culture of death, the culture of free loved and they want to rewrite the norms for society with regards to marriage, with regards to many things in life. What do we do in the face of opposition? One way is to resist. But resistance is not always the best way. Of course, there are certain situations when we are called to resist. It is important for us to be prudent, that we do not fight head-on against those who resist us. Because it will be counterproductive. The Christian response to those who oppose us is never violence. Many people who oppose the Christian faith, oppose our values, it is because they do not understand. They do not have the fullness of truth. They are ignorant. And so we need to be prudent in how we respond to those people who oppose us. It would be foolish for us, simply because we believe in Christ, that we go all out to destroy our opponents. Just because you believe that Jesus can heal us, even for those with COVID-19, it does not mean to say therefore we should go out without precautions. So prudence is necessary unless it is called forth.

In most cases this would not be necessary.
There is another way we can deal with people who resist us. It's the way of succumbing. Unfortunately, this is the way most Catholics take. When our values are in opposition with the world, what do the Catholics do? They agree with the world.
They adopt the values of the world,

simply because if you don't adopt the values of the world, you are marginalised.

Your wealth, your status, your popularity.
And so we say yes to all the values that they are proposing. We agree with whatever the world wants. This is really a contradiction to our faith. I's very shameful,

really. Because although we can be going to Church, we can be attending Mass on Sundays, but our lives are like pagans. The values we have are not from the Gospel. If we don't stand up for the Gospel, if we do not live by the Gospel, we are betraying Jesus and we are betraying our faith and we are betraying our fellow Catholics. That is why for us,
to behave like the world has scandalised so many. And most of all, becomes counter-
witnessing. There is still another method of how we should deal with resistance.
This is perhaps the most Christian method. Instead of fighting with those people who do not accept the Gospel message,
we should find other ways to spread the Gospel. We should go to other places where the Gospel requires us to be there, where people want to hear the Gospel. So when God closes the door,

He opens another window. There are always opportunities. And so it's important for us, when we are faced with constraints and oppositions in life, we need to be creative. We need to be receptive. We need to think out of the box. We need to find new ways to meet the challenges, so that at the end of the day, the Good News is spread.
We should not short-circuit the Good News, simply because we want to prove that we have faith in Jesus. Because there are many others waiting to hear the Gospel. And this is true even in our times. During this COVID-19 pandemic, even for the Church to reach out to our people is a big challenge. How can we continue to evangelise during this COVID-19 pandemic when many of us are locked in. So there are challenges. It forces us priests and the Church to rethink of ways to reach out to our people. Even my dear brothers and sisters, to bring you this online Mass is a big challenge. We have so many obstacles, so many constraints. And we are managing how to overcome all these constraints, so that we can continue to support you all spiritually. So my dear brothers and sisters, there are challenges indeed, but we always must pray. Ask for the Holy Spirit to guide us.

We should never give up hope, never give up faith, but we will turn every obstacle,

every challenge into opportunities.

