Today, St James invites us to live a life of wisdom. Are you a wise man, a wise person? It is not a measure of your intelligence. It is a measure of how we live our lives. If you live a life of love, of humility, of service, a life of peacemaking, then truly you are a wise man.
You can be a great intellectual but if you are full of ambition, you sow division wherever you go, you are always fighting with people, you are jealous, you are envious, this is not a life of wisdom.

This is a life, as St James tells us,
"This kind of life is animal, earthly and devilish." And so indeed, "Anyone who is living a life of wisdom", St James said,

"is one who is full of compassion. He is a peacemaker. He is kind. He is considerate."

Don't we all desire this kind of life?
Because at the end of the day, whatever knowledge we have, whatever money we have,
whatever talents we have, whatever positions we hold in life, if they do not bring us peace and love and joy, in vain have we lived our life. So this are only means, they are not the ends. And so how can we truly live a life of wisdom? That is why today the Lord tells us how. We need to have faith.
Faith is what will help us to live this life of wisdom. In the Gospel reading, we have the man. He was lacking faith.

That's why Jesus, when he told him that His disciples could not cast out the devil and Jesus said, "You faithless generation. How much longer must I be with you?" Jesus, He was disappointed because His disciples who have been with Him all this while, they were still lacking faith and so could not cast out the evil one, the demons that are in us.
And so to conquer the demons in our life,

we really need to have faith. Faith in Jesus ultimately, that He is able to rid us of all our fears, all our attachments, all our insecurities. Only Jesus can give us security, really, in life. Because in this life, nothing is secure. Your health is not secure. Your position is not secure. Your relationships are also not secure. Jesus is the one who can give us that security.

That is why faith in Jesus is ultimate. If you have faith in Jesus, Jesus can do the impossible.
He can rid us of all the demons that afflict us. But faith is more than just believing that Jesus can do miracles in our life. Faith ultimately is what the responsorial psalm tells us, "The precepts of the Lord gladden the heart." It means to say that we want to live the kind of life that Jesus lived. Jesus lived a life of wisdom, of course. He is the wisdom of God. and so if we live that kind of life that Jesus lived. A life of love, of sacrifice, of forgiveness, then indeed that is what it means to have faith. To have faith in Jesus therefore means we know  is the way we should live our lives, in imitation of Him. So how can we have this faith? This faith can be strengthened if we have a deep encounter with the Lord. There are some fortunate people by God's grace, they have this mystical encounter. They have this Transfiguration experience, like Peter James and John who just came down from Mount Tabor. They have seen the Lord in His glory. And that incident was so important because after that, they kept on remembering that incident. When they were having difficulties and trials, that incident came to their mind. So having a mystical encounter is really the grace of God that can strengthen your faith. But for those of us who have not yet a radical encounter with God, then today in the Gospel, Jesus tells us we need to pray.

Prayer is important because prayer strengthens our relationship with the Lord.

Without prayer, we would not be able to be open to the grace of God. We would not be able uch Him. Prayer is simply to engage Jesus, so that Jesus can enter our minds and our hearts. That is why today Jesus emphasised the importance of prayer. But that is not all. When we talk about prayer, it is also important that before we can truly deepen our faith, I think we must be humble enough to be like this father. He told Jesus, "I have faith.

Help me in my unbelief." Only a person who is conscious of his own inadequacy can grow in faith. Those of us who think that we have faith are those who do not have faith. So faith is a growing thing. And so like the father, we need to tell the Lord, "Increase my faith." And so it is this humility, this desire to grow in faith that will help us. A person who has no desire to grow in faith,

complacency, that is always the greatest obstacle. Many people are baptised. After baptism, their faith becomes stagnant because they don't grow in faith. So to know that our faith is weak, my faith is weak, that is the reason why all the more we need to pray. All the more we need to strengthen our faith every day. Every day you have to ask yourselves, are you growing in a deeper faith? To grow in a deeper faith means a deeper relationship with God. And to live and become a nicer person, a more loving person, a more forgiving person,

then you know that you have faith. And a more understanding person. Most of all, I know you have faith if you are a compassionate person. If you can feel with others, especially those who sin,
those who are sinners, I think you have deep faith.

If you tell me you have deep faith but if you have no compassion for those who are sinners, for those who have hurt us, for our enemies, I don'hink you have faith. That is not the kind of faith that we are speaking about. And so that is why it is important that we must edify each other in faith.
Because if we lack faith, sometimes it is because others scandalise us. And this was the case. The disciples did not have faith and the father's faith was scandalised. So it is very important for us who are parents, for those of us who are elders, whether our young people have faith or not is dependent on what kind of faith do we show to those under our charge. So today if we find that our young people are lacking faith, it's because the parents lack faith. You cannot expect the disciple to tter than the master. So if you find that your children have lost their faith, you have to ask yourselves,
are you responsible? Not all the time you are responsible, of course. But it is important that we set the example. And so today, let us take heart. For those of us who find that our faith is weak, then we know that the disciples, they too need to grow in faith. And so it was a learning curve for them because they did not know how to cast out the evil one. And Jesus told them, "What you need is prayer." So faith is always a growing process. We don't have it all at once. And so, so long as we are growing in faith and as St James says, "The moment we grow in faith, we will bear fruit in holiness."

