It is very natural for us that when people oppose us, when people are not happy with us, they become angry and they retaliate because things do not go the way they want. And this is where St James today warned us about how we react to situations in life. As I've said, for people to react that way, it is very natural because they want to defend their interests, because their status quo is being challenged. But when we react, we will only cause more issues and more problems because we cannot think clearly.
And reaction will always bring about more problems and more conflicts. That is why St James today in the First reading warned us, "God's righteousness is never served by men's anger. So do away with all the impurities and bad habits that are still left in you." And this is true especially if you are a leader. A leader must never lose his cool. A leader must always keep calm especially in difficulties, in facing challenges in life. When a leader loses his direction, then the leader will only react and cause more problems. And so, in many ways we are just like the disciples who are blind.

Remember in yesterday's Gospel, Jesus told the disciples, "Do you not yet understand?

Have you no perception?
Do you not remember?" And it is significant that today's Gospel on the healing of the blind man is just placed before the next episode, which is the confession of faith in Christ as the Son of the Living God.
The blind man could see but not the disciples. And sometimes it is ironical that even for us as St James says, so-called religious people, they deceive themselves because they cannot control their tongue and they have the wrong idea of religion because we are also blinded by our pride,

by our ego and by our insecurities. And that is why it is important for us,

reading today's Gospel, invite us that we should remove the blindness from our eye that pride and insecurity has caused us.
And how can we do this? This is where we are called to turn to Jesus.
Jesus is the man, is our Savior who would remove the blindness from our eyes. And that was what He did in today's Gospel,
curing this blind man. So how can we be cured of our blindness? The first thing we need to do as St James tell us, "Remember this my dear brothers, be quick to listen but slow to speak and slow to rouse your temper." Listening is always the first step.
Whenever we have criticisms, whenever we have challenges and whenever we have opposition, we have complaints. And of course the Bishop receives many complaints all the time because the Bishop's office is a complaint department for many. And so when we receive complaints, the first thing that we normally do, especially when letters are nasty, the natural spontaneous thing is that we want to react.

But it is very important that we need to listen. Listening involves humility.

Listening involves listening to what the person is not saying. So every time when I read complaint letters, the first thing I try to understand is not so much what the person is saying,
because sometimes people don't express themselves very well, or they express themselves negatively too well. And so this is where I try to understand their fears, their feelings that are unexpressed in the way they lodge the complaint. It is about their anger, it is about their insecurities. Maybe they have been slighted. So it's very important that to listen means to read between the lines,
not just the words. The words sometimes tends to hide the reality. And when people get angry, actually they are frightened. That's why people get angry because they are frightened. If people are strong, they don't get angry. Because people use anger in order to defend themselves.
That's why dogs, insecure dogs will bark at you because they are insecure. A dog that is not insecure won't bark at you because he thinks that as my opponent you will not make it. So it's very important. First thing is to listen. But to listen properly, we need to withdraw ourselves. And it is again very enlightening that in healing the blind man, what did Jesus do? He took him outside of the village. Because in the village, there are too many voices. And it is true again. As the Bishop,

regarding this cancellation of Masses, there are many hundreds of letters telling me I must cancel the Mass. And there are also equally a number of people say that I should not cancel the Mass.
So what do we do? We have so many advisers and they are all contradictory voices.

And this is where a leader needs to withdraw to go into solitude. To be able to discern what the Lord is saying.
That is why Jesus took the blind man outside of the village. So long as he is in the village, people will be talking and proposing this and suggesting that, the man cannot listen to the Word of God. And so Jesus brought him outside of the village.
But that is not all. Going outside the village is in order for us to listen to the Word of God. Discernment cannot be just sitting down and pondering what is the best method, what is the best approach. We must bring the Word of God.
And this is where again St James tell us,

"It is important therefore that we must listen to the Word. We must let the Word of God be planted in us and to submit to the Word. So using the Word of God,

spending time in prayer, bringing into considerations all that people have expressed is what is required of a good judgement. And this is where it is important that a leader must always withdraw. No solitude cannot help us to make a proper decision according to the will of God. But once the decision is made, then St James says,
"Then you must do what the Word tells you and not just listen to it and deceive yourself. Accept and submit to the Word."

So this is where after listening, after praying, the leader must be bold, must be decisive and must take action. There are leaders, they know the way, they know the truth but very often sometimes we tend to compromise for fear of the lack of popularity, for fear that people are not happy, for fear that you will be rejected. So a leader must always act for the interests of the greater good of the people. And so this is where it is important to listen to the Word, to carry it out.
There is one more thing that we can learn in today's Gospel which is this. You notice that in today's Gospel, Jesus laid His hands on the blind man, and at first he can't see clearly. He said, "I can see people that but they look like trees to me." And of course discernment process is always a process. Once you make a decision it does not mean therefore the decision stays forever. Decision has always the need for review, the need to reconsider when there are changing circumstances. And so discernment actually is a process. Certain things,
certain decisions we make might not be the best. And this is where again the leader's humility is important to reconsider and then be able to effect the changes. And this is where we see things clearer over time. And that was what happened to the blind man. So my dear brothers and sisters, if we want to be good leaders and to make good discernment, then the Responsorial Psalm tells us,  "The just will live in the presence of the Lord."

