The Prophet Hosea is known as a prophet of love. The message of Hosea is always one of love, the love of God.
So today's passage from Hosea is very consoling for us who have turned away from the Lord, who have made a mess of our lives.

Indeed Hosea said, "Your iniquity was the cause of your downfall." How true it is.

Most of us, if we are miserable in life,
it is because of our sins, because of our foolishness, because of our pride, because of our self-reliance.

We want to run our own lives without God.
We prefer to rely on our own strength.

That was what Israel did. And that is why the Lord said, "Assyria cannot save us. You must say this to the Lord.
We will not ride horses anymore. We should not say those things we have made with our hands our God." And that is what is happening. Today, people are trusting,
relying on their human ingenuity, human strength, human power, human wisdom. They think that they can achieve everything in this world without God. Today in the myths of these COVID-19 virus, we realise how fragile human beings are. How weak we are. How susceptible we are.

Indeed it is something for us to ponder,
that human beings are not that powerful after all. And yet, after reminding us of our iniquity, the Prophet Hosea also gives us hope. In the Prophet Hosea, the Lord always speaks tenderly. And so the Lord said, "Israel, come back to the Lord, your God." An appeal. An appeal from the heart of God. God is not angry with us, has not given up on us. In fact, the Lord said,

"Come back." Like the prodigal father, if we have gone away we have made a mess of our lives, God is just waiting for us.
"Come back.

Don't be orphans anymore because orphans will find compassion in Him."

We are orphans when we are without God. And so the Lord said, "I will heal the disloyalty.

I will love them with all my heart, for my anger has turned from them." This is the way God loves us. Always unconditionally, always there.

We just need to repent. We just need to return to Him. And everything, like the prodigal father, everything is forgotten.
And the reason why the Lord is inviting us to return is not to punish us but to help us to live life to the fullest.

Again that is what the reading said, "I will fall like dew on Israel. He shall bloom like the lily.
He will have the beauty of the olive, the fragrance of Lebanon." That is what the Lord wants for us. Our happiness, our freedom, so that we can be fruitful in life. But for this to happen,

it is important for us that we need to respond to His love. Love is always reciprocal. God does not force his love on us. He only invites. And that is why to respond to the love of God is what makes our life complete. Otherwise if we don't respond to that love, we will remain in our own misery.

It is within this context that we listen day's Gospel. When Jesus told the scribes, the greatest of all commandments is to love God with all our heart, with all our soul, with all our mind, with all our strength. And to love our neighbour as ourselves. Again it is always very important to remember the context of this teaching of Jesus. It is impossible for anyone to love God with all his heart, with all his soul, with all his strength. Impossible.

We can't even love our loved ones, our spouse, our children in that manner.

Our love is always limited, and how much more can we love our neighbour. But these Commandments are always in the context of the Book of Deuteronomy in chapter 6 verse 5, because this is a citation on the Book of Deuteronomy. When the people of Israel, having been set free from Egypt, from the land of slavery,

having seen the powers of God at work when they were delivered from Israel,

only then the Lord asked them to return that love. So God never asks us to love Him without first having shown us His love. So if people are not able to love others, if people are not able to love God, it is simply because either they are blind to the love of God in their lives,
or they are not receptive to His love.

So it's very important for us during season of Lent. It's not just focusing on our sins alone. Focusing on our sins,
doing penance and mortification make us very depressed people. You don't smile.
Lent is a season for us to smile because people look at us, they say, "Poor thing. It's a punishment for five to six weeks." It's not like that. Lent actually is a time to feel more and more liberated. We already coming to the end of the third week of Lent. I hope you feel lighter because you were very heavy.
Not because you have put on weight,

eating too much.
You are lighter because your sins are being taken away. And this is where we are called to precisely contemplate on the love of God more and more. The season of Lent, we are always doing Stations of the Cross and all those things.
Why? So that we can contemplate on His love. So that we will be more receptive to His love, to understand how much God loves us concretely. Not just imagination.
God loves me, we all know that. My mommy loves me. How does He love you? We need to know. We need to really grasp the love of God. The more we grasp His love, the more we will respond. This is like many of our children. Many of our children,
they know mommy and daddy love them,  but they never think through how mommy and daddy sacrifice themselves. How much they have to suffer. They don'hink of all these things. I know mommy and daddy love me.

If you know how much your mommy and daddy loves you, how much sacrifice they have put in to raise you up, then you will always be filial. Today, children are not filial because they take the love for granted. And that is what is happening to us. We take God's love for granted. And so my dear brothers and sisters,

today the Lord is inviting us to respond to that love. So that when we respond to that love then the Lord will say this to us, "You are not far from the kingdom of God."

