It is in our innate nature that all of us, we seek justice in life.
Everyone feels aggrieved when their rights and their dignity are violated. That is why we seek justice.

But my dear brothers and sisters,

it is not justice, unfortunately,

that we are seeking.

We seek revenge.

There is this vindictiveness in our heart to render to what our enemies deserve because of the pain that they have inflicted on us.

This is the law of retaliation.

In itself, this law of retaliation is not Christian but it is not wrong. In fact, this law is meant to ensure that justice is evenly given, that no one would exact a greater punishment more than the crime deserves. This is where the real problem comes. Many of e this law of retaliation in a personal way, to take personal vengeance against those who have hurt us. In this case, we are the judge and we are the self-appointed executor of the punishment ourselves. We take revenge. When we do that, we are actually not just hurting others. We are also hurting ourselves. We need to forgive our enemies. We must leave vengeance to God. We cannot allow evil to overcome us. We must overcome evil with good. We do not right a wrong with another wrong, then we will create more injustices. My dear brothers and sisters, if there is someone who has offended you, if someone has hurt you,

you have suffered unjustly, don'ake revenge.

Let God be the judge. Leave vengeance to God.
And there is no need for us to take revenge because those who sow evil will be overcome by evil. Those who use the sword will be killed by the sword. That is why those of us who take revenge, those of us who are vindictive, you will only create more problems for yourselves. You become resentful. This will not bring you happiness. In fact, it will only reinforce your evil in your heart. If you learn to let go and let God take over, you will be a free man. Many of the things I tell you, my dear brothers and sisters, that people have taken from us,
we don't need them actually.

We can be very happy even without all these things that people have taken from us unjustly. It is health that matters most. Happiness in the little things of life. If we have a shelter, if we have food, we have clothing, we should be very happy. The rest are all extra, actually. We must be honest ourselves. God will know how to take care of all these situations. Seek peace more than anything else. Overcome evil with good. If we continue to love our enemies and do good to them, one day,

their hearts will be transformed. There is no other way to overcome our enemy except to do good and to forgive.

