How can we have faith in Jesus? How to believe in Jesus? To believe in Jesus actually depends on the grace of God. In fact, many of us fail to realise that conversion is primarily the work of God, not the work of man. It depends on His grace. We must be drawn to the Father,

so that we can respond to Him. This grace is given to us all. However, for this grace to take effect in our lives, you need the response of the recipient, the docility. But we also need the help of others. That is why in the work of evangelisation, it begins first and foremost, the sending of a messenger.
We are called to make Jesus known. But many of us as Catholics, we feel diffident when it comes to the work of evangelisation. The question that people often ask me is, "Father,
how can I evangelise?" The work of evangelisation is not that complex. To be an evangeliser first and foremost, we need to be prayerful,

always alert to the prompting of the Holy Spirit. Evangelisation takes place anywhere,

anytime. It could be at the MRTstation, it could be in the bus, it could be in the market,

it could be in the shopping centre, it could be at home, it could be in the office, it could be just walking along the road. These are all the occasions when the Good News could be announced. But it takes a person's alertness to the prompting of the Holy Spirit whether we should reach out to this person, whether it's the right time, whether it's the best moment. This requires discernment and listening to the Spirit speaking into our hearts. I'm sure you have many occasions in life when God tells you to say these words to somebody,

send this inspirational verse to someone,
but we didn't. Or speak to this person, reach out to that person and we missed the opportunity.
Because the Spirit speaks but we are not attentive and prayerful. Whenever you have this inspiration in you stirring in your heart, the Lord is asking you to go forward. So that is the first step - prayerful listening. The second step for the evangeliser is to take courage. You need to have humility to approach someone.

Even if the Spirit prompts you to reach out,
then you must do it in a gentle way, not in an aggressive manner. Not to proselytise.
When people know that we want to convert them,

that is bad. Our intention is not to convert people. Our intention is really to offer them help, offer them assistance. It must be  genuine interest in the happiness, in the welfare of another person. It's not a question of gaining one more convert for the Church.

This is not what evangelisation is all about.
It is about trying to really extend our help and to see how we can better the life of someone.
That's the second steo - gaining the courage,

the humility to approach in a non threatening way. The third step is to dialogue. You know,

when we evangelise, it is not going about and telling people, "Jesus is the Christ.

Jesus is the Saviour." No. We will put people off. To evangelise means to help and so to listen first. To listen to the questions.
To listen to someone's problems. To listen to someone's queries and doubts, skepticisms.
Maybe this person has many hurts in life.

So listening first. Before we can even talk about Jesus, we need to listen to them. Once we listen, then they will be ready to listen to our message. What is evangelisation? It is to help people to connect their lives.
To make sense of their lives. And you cannot make sense of your life unless your life is connected with God. That is why you notice the world today is in deep depression, not just those people suffering from COVID-19.

People are depressed, falling into despair because life has no meaning. Because there is no God. There is no life beyond this earth.
But we have the answers. We have to help people to make sense of their sufferings, make sense of their lives. This is what evangelisation is all about. And to quote the Scriptures.
The Scriptures are quoted not just in order to impress people. Scriptures are quoted in such a way that gives meaning to their questions.

That's why it's very important. If you want to evangelise, you must be familiar with the Scripture text because this is the Word of God. Otherwise you will be offering answers form the world, that's what is the problem.
Worldly answers cannot give life. It must be from the Word of God. And the Scriptures being the Word of God will touch hearts. The most important is that the evangeliser must be self-effacing. It is not about himself.

He is called to announce Jesus. We are not here to announce ourselves. We must be very careful as evangelisers. We don't bring people to focus on us. Once we have done our job,

we disappear. We must be like John the Baptist.
"He increase, we decrease." We can't put ourselves always at the forefront. Once we have done our part and people have heard the Good News,

people have met Jesus, our work is done and we are happy. Many of them are too absorbed in being recognised, in getting honours, recognition,
be praised. This is not the way. This is not the way to proclaim the Gospel. We are nobody.
We are only servants. To be able to proclaim the Gospel is already a great privilege. There is no other reward. Finally, if you want to get somebody to be touched by the Lord, again grace comes in. It is prayer. Only prayer can change hearts and touch lives. Not enough to preach. We need to pray for those people whom we have spoken to them about Jesus.

