St James in the first reading, in the very first sentence, he said, "Where do these wars and battles between yourself first start? Isn't it precisely in the desires fighting inside your own self?" Sometimes when we see so much division in the world today, division in offices, division in organisations, division in our homes,

division in society, the real division begins in the human heart. If there is peace in every person's heart, there will be peace in this world. And so the real battle that is going on, is not so much outside of us. The real battle is within us. It is because we cannot handle this battle within us. And that is why it has its effects on others. And so St James makes it very clear, that the reason why there is so much division, it is simply because of selfish ambition. We all want to get the things that we desire. We crave for things. We crave for power.

We crave for glory. We crave for those things in the world. And because we cannot have them, then this is where envy,
greed, comparison, resentment will grow in our hearts. And when that happens, we will use evil means to procure what we desire.

And so this is really a battle that must begin in our hearts. The battle of wanting to do what is right and what is good.

And so when we speak of this battle, it is also important for us to realise that because many of us and most of us rather are very insecure people, we want attention,
we want recognition, we are afraid to suffer,

we are afraid of pain, and most of all we are afraid of death and rejection. And so there is this desire in us to protect ourselves. And that is the reason why this craving for power, for glory, for recognition. It is not only in the secular world. It is equally real even in the religious world,
whether we are priests, bishops, laity or  lay leaders. People even working in the Church, helping in the Church, they also seek recognition. They also want power.
They want fame. They want to be the best. "Compared to the other group, we are better." And so many of us even when we are serving,
we don't serve with the right motive,

although we claim we want to serve God,
we want to serve our brothers and sisters. And this was the case of the apostles in today's Gospel. They too desire to be famous, to have power, to be seated on the left and the right hand of Jesus. And so they were arguing among themselves who was the greatest. We want to be the best. And so this will cause, of course, resentment and competition. But it's important for us to realise this. In today's Gospel, Jesus tells us, the only competition that is allowed among us, the only ambition that we should have, the only ambition that will give you true peace and joy and happiness is the ambition is to love God and to love our brothers and sisters. To serve God and to serve your brothers and sisters. All other ambitions will cause you to be unhappy, restless.
You might be a great time businessman.

You might be very powerful. But you ask yourself, are they really happy? Those who have plenty of money, plenty of power,
are they happy in their hearts? What's the use of acquiring all these things,
all this fame and having status in life but you are not at peace? You are not happy. You are not fulfilled. So true fulfillment, that's the life of wisdom that Jesus is offering us, is precisely to put God first and to put our brothers and sisters before self. And this is what St James says, "You are unfaithful as adulterous wife. Don't you realise that making the world your friend is making God your enemy? Anyone who chooses the world for his friend turns himself into God's enemy." Because St James says, "the Spirit which is sent to live in us wants us for himself alone." If we are all for God, our focus is on God alone, then our objective is clear, our motive is clear. So whatever you do, even in church you have to ask yourself, is it really for the greater glory of God? Is it truly out of love for Him?

But this love for God, of course, is expressed in service. But not just service. Again, Jesus makes it clear it is humble service. That is why He took a little child. A child in those days, they were insignificant. They have no position.

They have no power. And yet, Jesus chose the child and said,  "If you welcome one of these, you welcome me." In other words, what Jesus meant is really this. If you serve people and these people cannot pay you back, that is the greatest joy. To know that we have made a difference in the lives of others, to know that we have given hope to people without expecting anything in return. This is a joy that no amount of money or things can really buy. I mean this is my experience actually as a priest, as a bishop. To be able to give my service for free. To be able to love without worrying about being recognised.

In fact, sometimes when you are not recognised, you feel happier. Because you know that God recognises you. And that is a joy that again cannot be compared.

Sometimes if people recognise you and appreciate you, or they applaud and they say nice things,
then perhaps Jesus could have said, "You already received your reward." No other reward. But truly, when we do it in that manner, there is great joy. And that is the reason why I always believe and I always made it clear, I have a vision for the Archdiocese. Why is it that even for me, with all the challenges, with all the difficulties of trying to align the parishes and diocese organisations together and sometimes it is so difficult, yet I still can maintain my peace and my joy? It is simply because I don't have an ambition. For me, the vision for the diocese is for the good of all.

If the vision is not realised, it is alright. Because it must be God's vision. It cannot be my vision. If it's God's vision then that vision will be realised. If it is not God's vision,
it will fail. And if God wants me to fail,

then we should fail and I should fail.
All I'm concerned is, am i doing God's will?

If I do God's will, whether it is failure or success, it doesn't matter because I'm at peace. And so today, that's why St James tells us, in order to really give ourselves, we need to purify our motives. Purifying our motives is very essential if we really want to serve God and to serve our brothers and sisters.

That is why St James says, "If you don't get what you want, it's because you don't pray." Doesn't mean you pray very hard and God will say to you,  "Thy will be done."
No, when you pray very hard then you will say to God, "Thy will be done." It's not the other way. So to pray is actually to discern our motives. To pray is really to be in union with the mind and the heart of God. Because when you are one with God, you will be at peace. And that is why St James says, "Give in to God, resist the devil and he will run away from you." We need to come near to God. And more so, tomorrow we will be entering the season of Lent. That is a great opportunity to resist the evil one.

The nearer we come to God, the further the devil will run away. Amen.

