In our own family, in our own relationships, we see so many things happening. We see someone living a sinful life and we know what is happening. And yet,

sometimes as parents, you know, we cannot say anything or else the children will be angry with us. They won'alk to us after that. And so, we need to close our eyes. But we know,

but what can we do?

Yes, warnings are many. And then when we see the consequences taking place, it is painful. To see our son being charged in court, going into prison,

very sad.

But this is true not just on the domestic level, even on the international level, but the world is not taking heed. The world is telling us these are the false prophets. Oh the world is saying, you know, the world is getting better each day. We have better technology. We give you a better life,

more freedom to do whatever you want.
But you must give up God. You must not believe in Him. Because there is no right, there is no wrong. Do whatever you want. And look what is happening. Wars all over.
Technological wars, military wars,

economic wars are being fought all the time. Because people are very materialistic, inward looking, selfish,

only thinking about themselves.

Look at our families.

Because of the trends the world is promoting, family live is gone.

Marriages, they don't last.

Sex crimes are increasing. And the world is just only interested in punishing the criminals, those who commit sexual crimes. Did they ever ask what is the cause?

A promiscuous life promoting pornography. But the world will not admit that. They don't remove the cause.

They just want to punish.

We are not realistic. We are not sincere.

We don't want to see the real problem. We don't want to see the root of our problems.

Because families destroyed, broken children,
dysfunctional families. What do we expect?

And yet the world says, like the false prophets, we are getting better. In spite of all this, the Gospel, the Scriptures always give us hope. Through all these sufferings, God understands us.
Sometimes the only way we can learn is through punishment, through the consequences of our sin. To repent, in other words. Repentance is what is needed. The Lord has not forsaken us. The Lord wants to reach out to us. The Lord wants to heal us.

Jesus is a great man of compassion. Do you know why? Because He sees the pain. He knows what we are going through. He is not in His office. He has no office. His office is at the seaside, in the fields,
along the streets. He sees the sufferings before His very eyes. He cannot but be moved to heal, to deliver people from their sins. Because sins, they are the cause of suffering. That's why He came to deliver us from evil. We are unrepentant. We are not moved. We just go through the rituals, the routine of our faith. Let us pray that we'll have a repentant heart, a heart that feels for people, a heart that is merciful and compassionate like Jesus, even though we cannot change people, especially in today's time. Those of you who are parents,
I know. Can'ell your children what to do. I know that. Like Jesus, we carry their burdens, their sicknesses,

their sins upon our shoulder. We can't do anything. But my dear brothers and sisters, there is one thing you can do.
You can pray for them. You can continue to reach out to them in love, in compassion.

