Many of us, we compromise on our faith.
We are not too sure whether Jesus Christ is really that powerful, whether He is really the Son of God. Because I know many Catholics,

they are coming to church. They go for novenas. They pray to Our Lady. But they are also involved in worshipping other deities. Some of them get involved in all kinds of superstitions, wearing charms, stones. Do they really have faith in God? They are not too sure.
They want to worship God. They also want to live a luxurious life. They will still worship power,

immorality.

They want the best of both worlds.

We compromise the Gospel and we give all kinds of justifications for what we are doing today. So that we can be considered Christians. At the same time, we are doing things that are contrary to the Gospel. But of course we can rationalise, explain away that it is acceptable today, because Jesus, His teaching is outdated. Jesus made it very clear. There is no compromise. Either you worship mammon or you worship God.

Jesus said if any man wants to follow Him, he must take up his cross. He must deny himself. The man who tries to save his life will lose it. The man who loses his life for my sake will be saved. I am fully aware. It's very difficult to give total commitment and allegiance to the Lord,
simply because our faith is weak. Unlike Elijah, he was true to God. He fought for the faith of Israel,

to preserve the purity of Israel's faith with all his heart, with all his soul, with all his strength. He was not afraid although there were 450 false prophets.

He was all alone. He was ready to confront them. He was ready to confront even the Queen Jezebel who was against him.

That was the person of Elijah.

So committed to his faith in the God of Israel. He would not bend.

There is no neutrality. There is no compromise. And we can see how fervent his faith was. And the Lord came down and burnt up the holocaust.

The power of prayer of Elijah.

Let us pray for this grace of commitment and a deep faith in God,
in our Lord Jesus Christ. Without it, it is impossible to commit ourselves totally to Him.

