The world that we live in is a very unjust world.

We see injustices everywhere.

And this is always the case, how evil people who are powerful and they will make use of people under them to serve their evil intentions. And those people working under them, unfortunately, most of the time, they have no choice because they are afraid of their rice bowl. Their promotion is dependent on them.

And so, quite often,

subordinates give in to their evil bosses and do things that are unethical,

morally wrong,

and sinful.

How then do we deal with all these injustices in our life?

What is required of us?

It must never be the way of retaliation.

We must not be like the world. When people do not agree with them, they use arms. They use weapons to destroy their enemies. How can we truly be generous and be forgiving towards our enemies?
We may be Christian, but certainly we're not Christian in the way we act, in the way we conduct our relationship with others. in the way we exercise our leadership. So we can go to church and pray. But the next minute we behave like pagans. That is why it's important,

my brothers and sisters, to acquire the heart and the mind of God. Jesus is not asking us to be morally perfect. No one is good except God alone. But we can be perfected in love, in compassion, in forgiveness. And how do we do this? We do this simply because God is our Heavenly Father. If God is our Heavenly Father, even sinners they are the children of God. They might not recognise God as their Father, but they are still God's children. And since we are all God's children, if you truly love your Father, what would you do? You will love your siblings as well. To love your siblings, to love those people your Father loves, is the way to love your Father. And so if we truly say God is our Father and we love Him, we must also love those who have not been good to the Father because the Father always loves them. Good or evil, He loves them all. If we are giving our love to those people who are good to us, that is not Christian love. That is human love. It's the love of friends. You don't need to be a Christian to do that. In fact, if you love those who love you, this is not the agape love that we are speaking about.

To love those who love us is a spontaneous response.

In fact,

the reason why we love those who love us is because we love ourselves more.

There is no difficulty loving those who love us. We don't need any energy for that. But to love those who hurt you, to forgive those who have been nasty,

ungrateful to you, that requires tremendous love from our Lord. We can't do this on our own strength. But that is what Christian love is all about.

Loving our enemies, forgiving those who have hurt us. We cannot be like the rest of the world, otherwise, there is no difference between being a Christian or non-Christian. So how do we do this? We are called to contemplate on Christ's passion. It's very important. That's why the whole Eucharist is a memorial of His passion, death and resurrection. When we contemplate on how Christ who suffered innocently, unjustly condemned, we too are called to carry that same cross of rejection, so that our wounds can heal those who have hurt us, as Jesus did. As Christians, very often we forget that we are called to be different from the rest of the world.

And this is often the case, that when we speak the truth, the world sees us as their enemy. We are not the enemy of the world. We love  humanity. We want to build a humanity where there is love, there is harmony there is giving. We are not fighting with the world. But the world sees us as their enemy. Because why? Because we speak the truth. But it's important, we must speak the truth always with charity. We do not take vengeance upon our enemies. We should not pronounce judgement before the Lord comes.
In everything, let us commend our enemies to the Lord and let God act on our favour and act justly for us.

