How many of us are courageous enough to reach out to people that we do not know? For us, many of us who are Catholics,
we are always afraid to share the Good News about Jesus to our friends. More so because we are living in a very secular city,

where even to mention the name of Jesus is considered not quite politically correct in public space. I know a few influential leaders today and they told me they studied in Catholic schools but all through their life in the Catholic school, not one ever asked them, "Would you like to know about Jesus? Would you like to join the Catholic faith?" It was only when they left the school and they entered the university or when they went to work,
the Christian friends came to approach them and so now they are baptised Christians. Are you surprised? I am not at all. Because someone even said to me in this Catholic school, the principal forbade even the teachers to mention the name of Jesus, for fear fending non Catholics. This is the situation that we are in. The fear of announcing the name of the Lord because we do not know how many people are waiting to hear the name of Jesus. But because of fear, we refrain from sharing Jesus to others. How then can we overcome this fear to announce Jesus to the world? Unless we have walked with Jesus closely. Unless we know Jesus,
His mind and His heart, there is no way we will be moved to share Jesus with others. If you are a Catholic and you have never seen the power of God at work in our lives, in the lives of others, how the Lord today continues to heal. Or those of us who are ministering to the sick, to the wounded and we have seen how the powerful hand of God can heal those people that medicine cannot help, then we know that God is alive. How then can we be connected with the living Lord,

the Risen Lord? I think the problem with many Catholics is they are worshipping a historical Christ. They are not worshipping a living Lord, I tell you.

Jesus is just a historical figure. He is not alive. Because if He is alive then you will know that He can still work in our lives. And what's the reason? Because we are not in deep relationship with the Holy Spirit. Without the Holy Spirit,

Jesus remains just a historical figure.
With the Holy Spirit, Jesus becomes real in our lives. Only the Holy Spirit can lead us to a personal relationship with the Lord. We need to ask, to desire for the Holy Spirit. Without the Holy Spirit,

there is no witnessing. Why? Because the Holy Spirit is the one who inspires us.

Growing in faith is not just doing studying and doing research. That does not mean to say you have faith in Jesus.
A person can do all the research she wants but only the Holy Spirit can help you to interiorise what we read. Only the Holy Spirit can help us to link the Scriptures with our lives. Only the Holy Spirit can help  in touch with our lives. That is why we need to pray to the Holy Spirit whenever we read the Scriptures because without the Holy Spirit, we cannot understand the depth of the Word of God.

Only the Holy Spirit can reveal to us the inner meaning. When you study, you are just getting the external meaning. But the real meaning, only the Holy Spirit can help us. So understanding is only the first stage in the work of witnessing.

Then we need to deliver the message. If the Holy Spirit does not help us to deliver the message, we might have all the ideas, we have all the thoughts but we do not know how to deliver them in a very convincing way. That is why before we can even preach a message, even before we can share our faith with others, or to teach our children about the faith, we must first be convicted. It is the heart that matters. We can give beautiful eloquent ideas but people will know whether we are preaching from the depth of our heart, or is it just another good show. That's why it's not eloquence, it's not technology, it's not knowledge alone that will help us to bring Jesus to others. It's the simplicity, the sincerity of how we believe in Jesus. We don't have to be a great theologian to convince people that Jesus is the Lord. We just need to be a staunch, convicted believer.

And thirdly, we are told, what else is necessary? We need the Holy Spirit to guide us, when we should respond, when we should act. We might have a good news to share but there is a right time to speak, a right time to act. And fourthly, the Holy Spirit is necessary to help the listener. You can be a great preacher, a great thinker, but my dear brothers and sisters, it is only the Lord who can open the hearts and the minds of people. At the end of the day,

effective teaching, witnessing and preaching is not the work of the preacher or the teacher. No preacher, no teacher should ever think, "Oh, I'm doing such a great job because I'm such an eloquent speaker and teacher. I'm so knowledgeable." This is where we are wrong.
Yes, we can be very eloquent but unless the Lord opens the hearts of those who listen to us, there will be no transformation. People might find our homilies, our teaching entertaining,

enlightening but there will be no transformation of life. Only the Lord can strike the hearts of people. Only the Holy Spirit can open hearts. Again, it is so important for us to remember this.
The Holy Spirit is given to us, so that we have fortitude and courage in the face of opposition. And we need that courage but more importantly, the Holy Spirit is given to us, so that we can face failures with joy. Trust Him because He is the one who brings about conversion.

