me of today'cripture reading is me of faith. How do you know that you have faith in God? Most of us,
unfortunately, our faith is an inadequate faith, an imperfect faith. How should you measure the depth of your faith? If you truly have faith in Jesus, then today the Gospel invitation would be taken seriously. For Jesus said, "If anyone wants to be a follower of mine, let him renounce himself, take up his cross and follow me."

How many of us are willing to take up the cross and follow Jesus? So unless we do that, we cannot say we have a deep faith in God. For most of us Catholics,

unfortunately, our faith at most is a notional faith, an intellectual faith. We have some faith in some doctrines of the Church, but that faith is actually the faith of the demons. That is what St James tells us. He said in today's first reading that even the demons believe in the one God. But unlike the demons, they tremble with fear. We don't. We are worse than the demons. So even if you have intellectual faith in God, you believe that God exists, then that faith is the faith of the demons. They also believe that God exists (the demons), but they don't believe in Him. Which means to say, they do not surrender their life. They do not entrust their life into His hands. And so it is important for us therefore that when we speak of faith,
just intellectual faith alone is totally inadequate. It does not impact on our lives. We are still living as before. That is why even great theologians and even priests have left the Church because faith is reduced to a notional faith. So does faith therefore means trust in God?

That is another level of faith that we should arrive at. For some Catholics,

they have simple faith. So now we go to the other extreme.

Many of our Catholics hardly know their faith, hardly read the scriptures, but we call them Catholics with simple faith.
They believe in everything. Every apparition also they believe. No matter what people tell them, they believe. And so they have this simple faith of trusting in God. God will heal me. God will protect me from all the virus. God will do anything. Everything is possible for God. That kind of faith is an act of personal trust in God. This is good but it is not enough.
This kind of faith is still inadequate because if you say you truly trust God,
what does it mean? It means to say we trust not just that God can take care of us. We trust that whatever God says,

whatever the Lord has taught us, we will obey. And so that is why St James makes it clear. Faith without good deeds is useless. Faith and action must go together. And this is where we are called to recognise this deep relationship between faith and good works. It is only when we have faith in God, that we will carry out what He asks us to do. This is the case of Abraham. And St James gives us the example of Abraham. Abraham as we know is the Father of Faith because Abraham trusted in God and His promises. God promised Abraham that he will be a Father of nations and He will give him the promised land. In faith, he set out from his country. In faith, he believed that he would be the Father of generations, although they were old and he and Sarah were childless. But Abraham did not simply trust in God. His faith in God is also expressed in his action.

Because when God commanded Abraham to sacrifice his only son Isaac, he did not say, "This one, I think a bit too difficult. This one I don't want to trust." Trusting means absolute and unconditional all the time. And so Abraham responded in sacrificing Isaac. And the Lord of course tested him in his faith. And so today, it is important for us that if we want to speak about faith, then our faith must be really expressed in the actions in our lives. And this faith requires us therefore to do what the Lord asks of us. To carry the cross and follow after Him. But having said that, it is also important for us to realise.

When we speak of faith, faith is not simply just trust and doing good works.

There is also a primacy of faith over good works. Which means to say, having good works alone is no indication that we have faith. So there are many Catholics who are doing good works. Not necessarily that the good work springs from faith. It could cause I'm retired, so bored and I don't know what to do at home, so I better help in the church.
Or maybe if I help in the church,

I get some recognition. At least people know me. They love me. I wouldn't feel so lonely at home. So many people, they do good works for different motives. But if your motives springs from your love for Jesus because He loves you and you want to share His love with others, that is the kind of good works we are talking about. So it's not the good works that will save you then. It is the good works that spring from the love of Jesus in you and you want to share this with others. So it's important therefore for us Catholics, faith is a justifying faith only if it proceeds from your faith in Christ. Good works must proceed from that love for Jesus. And so at the end of the day, it is also good for us to remember this. When we speak of  they go together. Actually faith is a growing thing. Just like a relationship. It is only when we start loving, when we start doing, then your faith actually grows. You can sit and say, "Lord Jesus, give me faith,

give me faith." Nothing is going to happen.
You can go - "Lord Jesus, help me to grow in humility." Nothing is going to happen until someone insults you and you say, "Thank you, Jesus."
Then you can see a growth in humility.

It's actually in the process of living out your faith in action, that actually your faith becomes even stronger. Because now faith is substantiated by the divine protection that the Lord has given to us. Amen.

