In the first reading, the Lord said, "Be holy, for I the Lord your God am holy."

It is very significant that God reveals His identity as holiness. It means therefore, for all of us, because we are created in the image and likeness of God,

all of us are called to holiness. To be holy is to reflect the image of God and His likeness in us. That is the reason why every Christian has this fundamental call to holiness. If you are not interested to grow in holiness, you are not a Christian. Because a Christian is one who wants to reflect the likeness of God in him. So what is holiness? Holiness,
however, is not simply spending time in prayer. Not even in fasting and mortifications. Holiness does not simply means that we spend more time reading the Word of God. These are important.

These are the means. They are not the ends. Holiness is fundamentally to love God and to love our brothers and sisters.
And this is very clearly brought out in today'cripture reading. In the Gospel,
we have Jesus who said to us, "I tell you solemnly, in so far as you did this to one of the least of these brothers of mine. you did it to me."
So Jesus explained holiness in the way He reached out to others. He was the compassion of the Father.

He was the mercy of the Father. He went about healing the sick, forgiving sinners, reconciling people with one another and with God.

So holiness really is to be seen in our love for our brothers and sisters.

St Teresa of Avila said something very interesting. She said holiness is really to love God and to love our neighbour. And she said this. Most of us think we love God. Most of us. But she said I'm not too sure. How can you be sure that you love God? When you love your neighbour. That is the sure criterion in the way you measure your love for God. So having nice feelings about God, basking in His love,

it does not mean to say that you have grown in holiness. It is only when we see it in loving actions. That is the reason why the Church tells us, charity is the soul of holiness. If we want to grow in holiness, it is charity. And that is the reason why in today's reading from the Book of Leviticus, you notice immediately after the Lord said to Moses,  "Be holy, for I am holy".

Following this invitation, there's the list of do's and don'ts. And they are all concerned, not about God. They are concerned about loving your neighbour.

So if we want to grow in holiness, we must first avoid the sin of commission.

Actually there are only two sins. Sin of commission and sin of omission. The sin of commission, precisely, is mentioned in today's first reading.

"You must not steal. You must not exploit or rob your neighbour.

You must not keep back the labourer's wage until the next morning." It is important, before we can speak about charity, we need to practice justice. There are some people who are practising charity but the charity came from stolen goods, ill gotten gains. So before we want to practice charity, we need to be just. That is why some people are generous with the Church because they feel they have stolen so much, so give a bit to the Church to suit their conscience. But what is even more important, is firstly that we live a life of charity, of justice, by not stealing, by not obstructing the growth of others and especially in the way we treat our workers. And God is clear with that, especially the way our workers are treated. And not only that. The sin of commission also speaks about the question of justice in judgement. You notice in today's first reading, we are still not talking about charity. We are talking about justice. If we cannot give our judgement justly, we have failed our brothers and sisters. So you notice that in the first reading, it is really the sin of commission. Be just. God is not saying, be charitable. First, be just.

Charity comes in the Gospel. In the Gospel, Jesus invites us not to commit the sin of omission. Now, charity is more the question of inviting us to go beyond justice. And that is the reason why Jesus came for the poor, for those who are sick,

for those who are hungry. And so let us practice justice. But it's not enough. We must also practice charity. Again, St Teresa of the Child Jesus, she says ultimately the Church is love. It is love that actually helps us to grow in holiness. In the final analysis, a Christian has two fundamental calling. The call to holiness is very much linked to the call of mission. Every baptised Christian must be a missionary. But there can be no missionary call unless we are holy.
That is why Pope John Paul II tells us this, in his letter at the beginning of the new millennium. He says, "All pastoral initiatives must be geared towards holiness." So the Church cannot be missionary minded, we cannot be fruitful in mission, if our people are just doing things, engaged in activities but not growing in holiness. And that's the reason why if the Catholic Church has been growing over the last many years,

what do you think is the greatest strength of the Catholic Church? It is social work. It is the social arm of the Church providing education for the poor,

for the marginalised, providing medical needs for those who are sick. It is the social arm of the Church that actually displays the holiness of the Catholic Church. Unfortunately, because of scandals, because again when religious leaders think about themselves and not about the people, this is where we have lost that glory. And so today if we want to bring back the glory of God through a life of holiness,

then indeed people will know that truly seeing us, is to see God.

And they will find hope. They will find mercy. Amen

