There are many Catholics, who have just been renewed in their faith. They have had a conversion experience. And there are many newly baptised,
very much fervent in their faith. After baptism, they want to render their services to the Church. We presume that they are ready to undertake full service and ministry in the Church. And very often, they are left alone to grow in their faith, if at all. Many of them get wounded.

Many of them become disappointed. Many of them are hurt in the process of ministering to the people of God. Because they have gone in,
without fully being aware of the challenges that come from within and challenges that come from without. Even within the Church there are enemies. They appear to be Catholics. But actually, what they are teaching is not Catholic. The kind of life they live is not Catholic.

And so we need to be very careful that very often division happens in a church, simply because there are imposters.

There are people in the Church,
supposedly to be working for God, but actually working for themselves. Pope Francis always warned us, especially us priests,
of spiritual worldliness, of being tempted by power, by glory and by wealth and by the pleasures of life. That is why it is very important that before we send our soldiers out to battle for souls especially against the evil one, they need to be armed.
They need to be equipped, so that they can truly not just reach out to save souls, but they can truly protect themselves. What is it that will equip us? It is our love for the Word of God. If we are not familiar with the Word of God,
if we do not read the Word of God, if we do not pray the Word of God, if we have done no systematic study of the Scriptures, how can we be ready to help people to walk the life of the Gospel? How can we ourselves be watchful of the persecution that comes from within and without? We would not be ready for this battle. Every day throughout the whole day, we must be imbued with the Word of God. It is the book of wisdom,
the book of truth, the book of love. Unfortunately, many Catholics, they don't read the Bible, much less to pray the Scriptures. And that is why although they are Catholics,
they are worldly. They behave like non Christians. They are even worse than the pagans. Because their values are all pagan values, not of the Gospel. They speak like pagans most of the time. God is the principal author of the Scripture. And because God is the author, because the Scriptures are inspired, we must take the Word of God seriously.

We cannot pick and choose those texts we like; those tags we find a bit difficult to accept,
let us ignore them, or let us even go against what the Bible is teaching us. We don't believe in the principle of 'sola scriptura',
that is, 'only the Bible'. But we believe in 'sola Verbum Dei',
that is to say, 'only the Word of God'. And what is the Word of God?
The Word of God is contained both in the written word, that is,
the Bible, and in the oral traditions of the Church, the Apostolic traditions. These are the unwritten word.

Because the Gospel is disseminated, both through the written Word and through the oral preaching of the Apostles. When we speak of the Word of God, it must include the Apostolic traditions as well. Without the Church, there will be no Bible.

The Bible exists for the Church.
And that is the reason why it is important that the Bible has to be interpreted within the context of the Church. It was the Church that gave birth, so to speak, recognise which books were inspired by God. That is the reason why we need to have the Church to guide us in the reading of the Scriptures. We need the guidance of the magisterium. The reading of the Scripture cannot be just a very individualistic, subjectivistic approach. If the Bible is the Word of God, the Word of God belongs not to one individual,

it belongs to the Church. The Christian community is the one that interprets the Bible. And so it is important for us to understand that actually, the root of all our problems,

especially with the Protestants with regards to the 'sola scriptura'

is simply this. It's a question of authority. Who has the authority to interpret the Scriptures rightly. It's not about the Scripture. Of course,
the Word of God, we must affirm Because it's the written word, it has a primacy. The Church cannot teach any doctrines that are contrary to the Word of God, that means the written word. But there are many things that have been said and taught by our Lord but are not put in the written word.

And this is where the traditions of the Church becomes important for us to continue to transmit the Word of God. And at the end of the day, my dear brothers and sisters, what is the Word of God?

It's not a word. The Word of God is not even a word. The Word of God is a person, that is Jesus. The words help us to connect with Jesus, to know the mind of Jesus, to know the heart of Jesus. At the end of the day,
it is Jesus that we are interested. Knowing Jesus,
loving Jesus. And that is why today we need to have mentors as well again. We need people today who live the Scriptures, so that we can inspire others. If we are in crisis today, to tell you honestly, is because we are lacking mentors. Parents are poor mentors of faith. Priests are weak witnesses of faith. Teachers are weak witnesses of faith. So it is because we lack mentors deeply in love with the Word of God, in love with Jesus. That is why we become counter witnesses.

