The Gospel is fundamentally about relationship. In fact, our whole life finds meaning only in authentic relationships. It is relationship that makes life truly meaningful. It is not about what one is looking for, but who is the person we are looking for. So we can understand Mary Magdalene. She was deeply in love with Jesus.
Losing Jesus meant losing everything she had. She was clinging to the earthly body of Jesus of Nazareth. And this is true for all of us as well when we lose our loved ones. Every bereavement causes us great pain. Not necessary a bereavement even. It could be any relationship with a friend that is broken, a member of the family that has left us because of some disagreement. When a relationship is broken, we still long for that relationship We yearn for the good old times. We want to go back to that old relationship. This is where most of us are immature in love. Most of us, we think that relationship is something that is constant and stable. That is not a growing relationship. In fact, if your relationship with someone is so stable,

the relationship is stable but there is no life. When the relationship is so stable,

it means to say it is dying.
A relationship that is real is always dynamic, is always changing and growing.
Anything that does not change means it is dying. And so we need to be very careful that we do not fall onto the same mistake as Mary Magdalene. She wanted to cling to that old relationship where she was familiar with. She could not let go. Just like many of us, we cannot let go. We want to fix that relationship forever. But my dear brothers and sisters, Jesus understands our immaturity as he understood Mary Magdalene.

Do not cling on to the earthly Jesus. Do not cling on to our fixated ways of wanting to be with our loved ones, of wanting a relationship that we felt was then so good. We must be adventurous. We must be ready for that relationship to transform and to move to a higher level.
That is why in the resurrection, the body of Jesus was transformed. He lived in a new mode of existence. And this explains why Mary Magdalene could not recognise the Lord when he appeared at the garden because he was in a transformed mode.
He is a transfigured Lord. And this is therefore a real challenge to all of us as well. Many of us during this COVID-19 pandemic, we are missing Jesus in the sacraments. And what is this COVID-19 is teaching us? That the Risen Lord is coming to us in new ways. He cannot be locked indoors, in rooms. He comes to us in surprising ways,

if only we allow Him, if only we open our eyes and our ears. The Lord Jesus is touching our lives. The Lord understands our constraints. What is most important at the end of the day is, does the Lord touch your heart? He is going to be present to us in a new way, in the Holy Spirit. Because when the Holy Spirit lives in us, we can feel the love of Jesus. When the Holy Spirit lives in us, we can receive Him spiritually when we make the act of spiritual communion. For those of you who cannot go for confession, all you need to do is to make an act of perfect contrition,

truly sorry for your sins, and you can be sure the Lord forgives you, because you cannot go for the Sacrament of Reconciliation.
Nothing can hinder the Lord from touching you and moving you. Repent of our fixated thinking of how we want God uch us. If only we repent, then the Lord will come into our lives.

He will fill us with His peace. He will fill is with His joy. And our relationship with the Lord will always remain strong.
Not just with the Lord.

Even our brothers and sisters whom we cannot meet in these days, spiritually,

emotionally, we can be even more bonded as we begin to share our struggles, our joys and our faith with each other.

