All of us are seeking for peace in life.
But very often we find there is no peace in this world. Because this world is fraught with so many problems and sufferings and tragedies and failed relationships. As it is said, so long as we are in this life, there can be no perfect peace. We think that a person will have peace only when he dies and so when a person is dead, we say, "May he rest in peace." If we are looking for peace and peace is not found, what is the reason?

Because we are seeking for peace in the wrong way. We have a false notion of peace. This is the peace of the world.
Peace for the world means that there will be no more problems in life. No challenges, no difficulties, no need of any sacrifices. The peace of the world is,
you just look after yourself. You just enjoy your own life. Take care of yourself. Don't worry about what is happening in the world. Don't worry about those who are suffering, those who are poor. Live your life quietly. Enjoy your life. If this is the kind of peace that we are looking for, this is not true peace. It's a superficial peace. Because if a man lives only for himself, his life is lonely and he is miserable. And he will find trouble for everyone else.
That's the reason why those of you who are retired and are doing nothing, staying at home you want peace, but you make sure that all those people who are staying with you at home have no peace. Because you'll be looking for trouble. This is not the kind of peace that Jesus is offering us. Whenever you love, there will be problems because love always demands self-sacrifice. Love means to inconvenient ourselves for the one that we love. Love means that we need to attend to the other person. Love means reaching out. Love means getting involved in the lives of people. Love means getting into trouble, actually. That is why when we love, we are always involved in the sufferings of others, in the needs of others. Only a person who does not love, in that sense, does not get involved in the lives of people. So love always demands sacrifices,carrying crosses. And why do we do it?

For the love of those people that we want to care for. And it is love that gives meaning in life. It is love in spite of its tensions. It is love that gives us peace. Without love, there is no peace. The peace that Jesus is giving us,

this peace involves tension. It's a dynamic tension. Without tension in life,

there is no growth. If you don't exercise,
your body, your muscles will be weak and you will fall sick. If you don't exercise your brains, if you are not creative in your thinking, you will be demented in no time. And it's the same in life. If there are no challenges,
if there are no sufferings, there will be no growth. That is why even in this COVID-19 pandemic, yes, we have gone through a lot of inconvenience and sufferings, but it is not all negative. There is light in all this. The COVID-19 pandemic has forced us to think out of the box, to come out of our boxes. Otherwise we have been living a life that is routine, so used to doing what we have been doing. Until now that we are challenged, we need to think creatively how to continue to be connected with our loved ones, to be connected with our people, with our colleagues. How can we continue to evangelise? And all these things involves tension. What is this peace that the Lord wants to give to us?

Where does this peace comes from? The peace that Jesus speaks about is the peace that comes about doing His Father's will.
It is doing the Father's will that gave Him peace. And what is the Father's will?
The Father's will was simply that Jesus revealed his love for the world, for us all. So peace comes from doing God's will.

And doing God's will is nothing else but simply loving God, loving our brothers and sisters. It is only when we love that we find meaning and purpose in what we are doing. If we just love ourselves, even if there are no problems outside us, there will be a battle inside us. There will be loneliness,

there'll be incompleteness in us. Our life for us has no value. It is only when we expand our lives for others, this is where we find true value in what we are living for. Our lives will be full of meaning. That is why when we have finished our work and we have given our best, when we've given our lives completely to God and to the service or brothers and sisters, even this life could be a real challenge every day. But I can assure you at the end of your life, you will never regret. Because you have given all that you could give. We need to encourage one another in this journey of faith, to support, to love and most of all, to accomplish God's will in our lives.

