What we have in the Bible,
the Word of God are those very essential facts about the life of Jesus. Many things that Jesus did and done, many signs that were performed,

all these things cannot be put in a book.
They were transmitted orally.

And that is why the Church has always believed in the written Scripture and the oral Tradition, these ongoing interpretation of Jesus in the life of the Church by believers who have encountered Him.

The proclamation of the Gospel cannot be hindered.

It is very important for us to realise this. That the Gospel must continue to be preached, to be proclaimed.
We are all on trial as Christians.

People who are believers and non-believers,
are looking at us how we Christians live our lives.
Whether our lips match what we do in our lives. Whether our proclamation of Jesus as Lord and Saviour is how we surrender and submit our lives to Him, in living out the Gospel.
Whether our faith in Jesus as Lord and Saviour is real. Today, we face a lot of oppositions.
The world is sceptical of our belief. And you'll be on account of our faith in Jesus and the Gospel that we will be persecuted because the world cannot accept the teachings of Jesus.

The world cannot accept the truth that the Gospel proclaims.

And yet, we have to continue to make this known.

And how do we do it? We need to proclaim.
Proclamation is different from teaching.

Proclamation simply means to speak about Jesus as our Lord and Saviour,
how Jesus has made a difference in our lives. Proclamation is testimony to Jesus. And I've told you before,

everybody can give testimony of how Jesus has worked in their lives. No need to instruct. Just proclaim.
It is only after hearing the proclamation,
those who have faith then we continue with catechesis. This is called instruction.

Instruction cannot begin until proclamation has begun. Otherwise catechesis will be founded on sand. People first must be convinced and believe that Jesus is Lord and Saviour.
After that, they will want to find out more about Him,
to understand Him deeper. So proclamation followed by teaching. And that's the reason why all of us,

we are called to be missionary disciples of our Lord. And every one of us,

we simply have to follow Jesus.
We have to take up whatever the Lord wants us to do. If we follow Jesus,
according to our state of life,

according to our vocation, living out as fullest as possible, then we would have done our obligation as Christians.

Let us continue to grow in our faith, to nurture our faith,

never to take our faith for granted, so that the Church can continue. And this history of the Church will continue,

which we are all in, until the end of time,

until the consummation of the Kingdom.

