Whenever we preach the Gospel, the Good News, we will be faced with oppositions,

sometimes hostilities even. And this is the reason why. Simply because the Good News we preach is about truth and about love. We preach the culture of life and the culture of authentic love.
The world preaches the culture of death.

They advocate abortion, euthanasia.
The world promotes a culture of false love, superficial love. They reduce love to lust and sex,

pornography. They do not believe in lasting love. And that is the reason why when we preach the Gospel of Truth, the Gospel of Life and the Gospel of Love, we make them look bad. And that is why they are not happy with us. The world is against Christianity because we are taking away their businesses. And so the world is gathering all resources. And they have money, they have power, they have technology, they have influence and they buy these people in the world, even political leaders, celebrities to their cause because they want the world to normalise what is false as something true, what is evil as something good.

They have all the machineries. And that is why they want to rewrite the norms for society. And this is what is happening.
The world uses every form of power and means that they have to fight against the Gospel.

Because if the Gospel is preached, their businesses will be affected. They are not seeking for true freedom. So when the world opposes us, when the world thinks that we are a nuisance to them and they want to silence us, what do we do? Do we retaliate? Do we become hostile? Of course not. This is not the way of Christianity. We do not take up arms. We don'ake up violence. This is not the way of the Gospel. The world has misunderstood us. Because why? They have contaminated the minds of many people,
spreading falsehood about the Gospel, twisting the truth of the Gospel. That's why the world thinks we are against happiness,
we are against love, we are against marriage, we are against life. That is not true. We are for life. We are for authentic love, lasting love. We are for the families. We are for beautiful lasting marriages. We are promoters of true freedom. We are not against the world. We are for the world. That is why the Gospel is preached to the world because we love creation. We love humanity. We want them to live the fullness of life. So the Gospel is not against the world. But you see, because these people are worldly, selfish,
inward-looking. They paint the Gospel as if we are taking away freedom from society, freedom to do whatever they want against humanity and even against creation, as we can see in climate warming. We don't have to fight against the world. We are wasting our energy.

We don't have to take up demonstrations.
I don'hink all these things are necessary. We are wasting too much energy on this. All we need to do, instead of cursing the darkness, fighting with these people who are against the Gospel, we just have to bring light. When the door is closed for us, you can be sure my dear brothers and sisters, the Lord will open the rest of the windows. So we don't have to go on headlong and fight with people.
There are many people in the world, they are seeking for light, they seeking for truth. Let us announce the Gospel to those who want the Gospel. Let us be witnesses of the light. Instead of fighting with these people, we let the world know how beautiful a good marriage can be. We let the world know how beautiful life can be. We let the world know how beautiful when there is true and lasting love. That is how we witness to the Gospel. Not fighting but lighting.
Lighting so that they will see the joy of receiving eternal life. Because when the world rejects the Gospel, who is the loser? We are not the loser. When they reject the Gospel, they are the losers.

They are the ones that we should pity,
not angry with them.

I feel sorry for them because they do not know what is eternal life. They don't have life. You just ask yourself. Are worldly people really happy people?

No. They are full of anger, revenge, full of vulgar words, hatred, grabbing,

retaliating, fighting, attacking others,
planning, scheming. How can you  find happiness? No. They destroy themselves.

This is what we must do. We must continue to go out and proclaim the Gospel because there are many people who want to hear. The Gospel, let it be clear, is offered as a gift. We don't impose the Gospel on people. We cannot impose our love on people. If they want it, praise the Lord for them. If they don't want it, they have to answer to themselves. And in the end, they will be the ones who will be shortchanged.
That is why if you are a true evangeliser,

how do you know? If you are a true evangeliser, even when you are rejected,

you must have joy. Because why? The mission is not ours. The mission is the Lord's. We should be filled with joy because it means to say the Lord says, "Then go somewhere else."
Because others want the Gospel filled with the joy of the Holy Spirit. And the evangeliser must always be joyful even when rejected. Because it is not an ambition that we want to fulfil. It is the Lord's mission. If we want to have the same spirit of Jesus, if we want to perform great works, let us unite ourselves with Jesus. That is why prayer is very important, so that when people see the good works, as Jesus said, "Even if you don't believe in me, at least believe on evidence of the works that I do." Let our good works be our real testimony that the Good News is truly good.

