The Mass is the summit of the Catholic celebration of any form of worship. It is the highest. Simply because the Mass is a celebration of the Sacrifice of the Lord, our thanksgiving to the Father. It is real meal and most of all, the Eucharist is the Real Presence of our Lord. It is in the Eucharist that we draw life.

The Eucharist is of great importance in our Catholic faith, because it helps us to continue to experience His personal presence in our lives. In the Eucharist, we touch Him, we feel Him and we see Him.

And that is the reason why we have perpetual adoration, Eucharistic adoration, so that in worshipping the Lord in the Eucharist,

you will remember His passion, His resurrection,
His love for us. And we can draw strength in our spiritual life. But most of all,
the adoration of the Eucharist outside the Eucharist itself, is in order to help us to yearn to celebrate the Eucharist fully when we celebrate the Mass.

Every devotion must flow out of the Mass that we celebrate.

We are the body of Christ. The body of Christ is not just the Eucharist itself.

We are also the Eucharist. So the celebration of the Eucharist, the adoration of our Lord in the Blessed Sacrament is to remind us that we are part of this Mystical Body and that it is the Eucharist that makes the Church. It's an important reminder that we are a sacramental and communitarian dimension of our life.

We are not pure spirit.

We are not just private individuals.

Today, the world speaks about a new normal. In truth, the new normal is not normal.

Simply because we are created to be sacramental beings.
We have a body. We need uch. We need to feel.

We are social beings. We need to be connected.

We need someone to give us a hug. We need tangible signs of love.

Already before the COVID-19,

the world has been de-personalised because of technology. People no longer communicate with one another in a personal way. We are no longer personally present to one another. And this has resulted in alienation. Social distancing will lead to emotional distancing. We can understand the concern of our Holy Father. He expressed concern that with the streaming of online Masses, it might lead to a situation where Catholics begin to privatise the faith,

that the Eucharist becomes a private devotion without the community, without the sacraments, without the Eucharist.
And that would be contrary not just to our identity but to our faith. There is also the social dimension of the Eucharist. To worship our Lord in the Eucharist should make us more committed to our brothers and sisters,

should make us more loving towards our brothers and sisters. So the Eucharist cannot be reduced to a private devotion.
But having said this, we cannot at the same time dismiss the value of online Masses, online worship, even of the Eucharist, simply because the grace of God cannot be hindered by any barriers that humanity have put up.

God will continue to reach out to all of us in extraordinary times like this COVID-19.

For one reason or another, maybe because of physical mobility, because of certain health reasons, they cannot participate in the Mass with the community. With the online Mass, today they receive at least some spiritual food. The online Mass is not the ideal. It's not the best way to mediate the full presence of Christ. But surely, for those that we cannot reach out to, we cannot expect them to be present in the church before we reach out to them. There is a process of helping them to encounter Jesus deeply.
So that one day, they can be part of the community in worship.

Those people who worship during the online Masses, many of them also have shared that actually, they have grown closer personally to the Lord. Because they could worship without distraction.

They can give full attention.

They learn to interiorise what they say. It's really true. Because if every Catholic were to worship with their heart and soul at every Eucharist on Sunday,

the whole Church will be set on fire with the love of God. Because of this privation during this COVID-19, actually,
it has helped our Catholics not to take the Eucharist for granted, to yearn for His presence. That one day they can go back and receive Him. And this time,
not in a perfunctory manner, but this time with deep sincerity and love. It is faith that transforms us. You can receive the sacrament physically,
personally, but if there is no faith, it becomes a superstitious object that we receive. There will be no change of heart.

In extraordinary times, when you cannot receive the Lord sacramentally but spiritually, but because you interiorise what you celebrate, He will change your life. Let us ask the Lord to help us to appreciate the Eucharist even more,

so that after this COVID-19 pandemic,
you will be able to return to receive Him sacramentally and to celebrate together as a community of faith in the one body of Christ.

