How do we know whether a movement is of divine origin or human origin? How do we discern? The first principle that is given to us is, of course, by Gamaliel. He is one of the most scholarly Pharisees, very well educated and level-headed.

This principle is called the principle of perpetuity. And this was what he said,

"If this enterprise, this movement of theirs is of the human origin, it will break up of its own accord. But if it does in fact comes from God, you will not only be unable to destroy them, but you might find yourselves fighting against God."

In the history of humanity, political empires have risen and fallen.

No political empires have lasted for 2,000 years.

Corporations, economic corporations,
commercial corporations, they have their good times and they will fade out. But do you know what is it that really lasts on this earth? Religion. Hinduism, Islam Buddhism, Christianity, we are all more than 1,500 years. All the other organisations that are of human origin,

they have come and they have gone.
Although the Catholic Church does not explicitly say that other religions are of divine origin, the Church in the Constitution, 'Nostra Aetate' says they have rays of divine truth. And that is the reason why they can last over time. The second principle is the principle of continuity. Again if you look at the Catholic faith, although Jesus the founder was killed, the cause lives on. And not only the cause lives on, the disciples continued to grow. And the reason is simple - because Jesus lives in the Holy Spirit. So if that organisation is truly from God, it will last until the end of time. The fact that the Church is more than 2,000 years old,

we can be very confident it comes from God. And that is why we continue to proclaim that Jesus is alive in our midst.

Otherwise Christianity would have fallen.
We have gone through many struggles and schisms right from the early Church.
Reformation or the scandals, and the Church still remains as strong as ever.
That is why we know that the promise of Jesus, "I will be with you until the end of time", is a promise that is being fulfilled. The third principle to know whether something is of divine origin would be the teachings and the lives of the adherents. You look at the lives of the believers. Are they living good lives,
honest lives, lives of justice, compassion,

lives of forgiveness? Forgiveness is very important. Or is it a life of hatred and revenge? Then you'll know whether they are from God or not because God is always forgiving. Whether the teachings of religion? All religion, good religion and true religion always teach us how to be good,

how to walk in the truth, how to walk in authentic love, how to die to ourselves,

how to give ourselves to humanity.
Any religion that teaches about enriching ourselves, making ourselves rich and powerful at the expense of others,
that is not a true religion. All religions talk about self-sacrifice. And finally,
the last principle. How do we know it is a true religion or religion that comes from God, of divine origin? It is when the followers are ready to suffer martyrdom,
to die for their faith. In the Church, my dear brothers and sisters, we have a long history of martyrs. Martyrs who have died for their faith. And we still have martyrs today who die for the faith. Why would people want to die for the faith unless they have encountered the Risen Lord,

unless they know that Jesus is real?
You don't die for something that you don't believe in, for something that you have not seen, not encountered. That is why martyrs, they are truly believers of Christ. They are willing to give their whole life for Jesus. That is why in the light of these four principles, the Church while recognising that all the major religions have rays of truth, we continue to proclaim Christ as the Way,
the Life and the Truth. Not because we are triumphalistic but because we have encountered Jesus as our Lord and Savior.

We do not compromise our faith. At the end of the day, faith is also a gift from the Lord. So let us not be shy. Let us not be diffident to announce to others that Jesus is Lord. That is provided we ourselves have truly encountered Him.

