As Christians, the fundamental calling of everyone is the call to holiness.

Holiness is the goal of every Christian.
And we must strive to grow in holiness.

To grow in holiness is to grow tegrity, in compassion and in love. If we do not strive for holiness, we have already been defeated by the evil one.

That is the real problem of many Catholics. They do not take the call to holiness seriously.
They are complacent in their spiritual life. Even after baptism, they do not make efforts to strive to become more Christ-like in virtues, in the way they deal with people. Because that is what holiness is all about. But when we want to grow in holiness, St James in today's First reading tell us, we will have trials, we will have temptations.

Some people often tell me. It is not quite right. They said, "You know Father,

before I was converted, before I joined this retreat and that retreat, I never felt so much temptations. Now that I am closer to God, the devil tempts me even more." This is not really true. The devil always tempts us. If you feel that you are being more tempted than before, it is because when you grow in holiness, you become more sensitive to your sins, to what is right and what is wrong. Before you were converted, your conscience is numb.
That is the reason why you don't feel the temptation. So if you are feeling many temptations in your life, it means that you are growing in holiness. If you have no temptations, it means that the devil has already won you over. No need to tempt you because you are already in his own camp. So that is why Jesus Himself faced temptation from the very beginning of his ministry right to the end. So how then can we deal with temptations? It is important to understand that the devil does not just destroy people who are big sinners. The real problem is big sinners, as I've said,

are already on the side of Satan. The devil wants to tempt people who want to grow in holiness. And the fallacy for many of us is this. We think that if we commit small sins which we call venial sins, they are all right, don't worry too much about them. And this is where the devil knows how to destroy us. Because sins always begin small, and then after that becomes big. This is what St James tells us, "Everyone who is tempted is first attracted by a wrongful desire. And the desire conceives and gives birth to sin. And when sin is fully grown, it too has a child. And the child is death." So sin begins with a thought, with a desire.

But it will be given birth to an action.
And this action will become more and more evil over time and finally we destroy ourselves. So it is important therefore if we want to grow in holiness,
we must pay attention even to the imperfections in our life, even to small sins. Because again today in the Gospel,

Jesus warns the disciples to be careful of the yeast of the Pharisees.

Yeast will grow. And so, is it good yeast or bad yeast? So vices will grow,

if we do not pay attention to them. St John of the Cross tells us this.

Whether a bird is tied to a chain or a thread, the bird cannot fly. So if we are under the slavery of sin, then of course we will have no peace. Eventually we will destroy ourselves. That's the reason why today again St James tells us, "This is not what God intends for us." He said, "Make no mistake about this my dear brothers.

It is all that is good, everything that is perfect which is given us from above.

It comes from the Father of all light.
With him there is no such thing as alteration, no shadow of change. By His own choice, He made us his children by the message of the truth, so that we should be a sort of first fruits of all that He had created." In God, there is goodness, there is truth. So we must turn to God. But how can we do this? Firstly ,we must understand that all sins are born mostly and perhaps all, ignorance. That is why when Jesus was on the cross, Jesus said to his Father. He says, "Father, forgive them for they know not what they are doing." So, many of us,
because we are deluded by the evil one,

because the devil deceived us into thinking something is good when it is evil. If you still remember the scripture readings last Sunday, anger itself will lead to violence, eventually to killing. A lustful thought will end up in adultery,

fidelity. So, many of us, we perceive wrongly.

And this was the case of the Apostles.
They too were thinking of material things, of the bread, which Jesus was not concerned about. And so, ignorance leads us to sin.
Unfortunately, many of our Catholics,

they are easily influenced by the world. They read everything from the internet. They have no time to read the Bible because they say,  "We are so busy, so many things to read." But they will read everything except the Bible. And that is why their minds are confused.
Their minds are contaminated by the values of the world. That is why we have many Catholics although baptised, they are pagan in their way of life. And so what must we do? Today it is clear. If you really want to grow in holiness then we must receive and go back to the Word of God. The Bread of Life that Jesus came to offer is His Word.

It is attentiveness to His Word, reading His Word that we can discern what is right and what is wrong.
St Paul tells us in his second letter to Timothy in 3:16 -  All scriptures are inspired by God. They can be used for edification, for instruction, for correction. Secondly, it is important that as we read the Word of God, we must also learn to discern. And this is where the examen is very important. It is again significant that in today's Gospel, Jesus reprimanded His disciples. He said, "Do you not understand? Are you still without perception?
Did you not remember?" That's the whole problem. We already at a very young age suffer from dementia. Most of us, we cannot remember. We cannot remember the good things the Lord has done for us and we cannot even remember the bad things we have done. That is why we keep on repeating the same old mistake because we have not remembered. We have not. We have failed to remember the wrongs that we have done. That is why we don't correct them.

So examen is to help us to recognise the presence of God in our daily lives. At the same time, those times when the Lord was not present. And why? Once we are more careful then we learn to grow in holiness, become sensitive to God's presence or His absence. And finally, we are told what must we do? We must pray of course to the Holy Spirit for wisdom, for discernment. Only the Holy Spirit can give us the strength to really walk the way of truth and love. Without the Holy Spirit, it would be almost impossible.
Amen.

