Many of us, we take for granted the blessings that God has given to us. Most children take for granted their parents,
for all the sacrifices that they have done for them, for all those times they have looked after them, especially when they were sick.

When they grow up, all these are forgotten. They only remember those few occasions when they were disciplined by their parents. So too,

how often we appreciate our spouse? We take their love for granted, for the care that they give to us, for helping us to look after the family. We don't even say a word of "thank you". For our job as well.
Many of us, we grumble.

There are many people who are without jobs and we are not grateful for what we have. And even health. We take them for granted until they are taken away.

And this is where the danger lies.

We will suffer the consequences of our sins.

When we are suffering in life,

it is not because so much God wants to punish us.

God wants us to return to Him. God wants us to wake up from our foolishness in life. And that is the reason why normally, the price for our sins is to be punished by the very sins that we have committed. God's judgement will come sooner or later.

We cannot escape from His judgement.

If we do not see it today with our own eyes, our children, children's children will suffer the full consequences of our infidelity to Him. We will face the storms of life, but the storms of life are never meant to destroy us. The storms of life are meant to challenge us,

so that we know where we stand.

The problem is when we are healthy,

when we have a good job,

when our family is well taken care of, we tend to take all these for granted until these are taken away.

So too, for those of us who trust in our wealth, in our riches, in our status.

All these will not last.

There are many people who are so proud,
so arrogant, because they have fame, they have money, they think technology can solve all the problems in the world.

A day will come when they will meet their God.
Then they know all the money you have,

whatever influence you have cannot save you. Look at COVID-19. No one is spared, because they are poor, or because they have status.

Everyone will have to face their God.

We need to be prepared. Prepared for the crises that are ahead of us. We will all face crisis in life. But the storms in life are meant to help us to realise how helpless we are without Him. So long as we are self sufficient, so long as we can do without God, we think highly of ourselves. Until the day when we are about to drown. Then like the apostles,
we will say, "Save us Lord, we are going down." And the Lord will show. When we are dependent on Him, He will show His glory, His power. So long as you can do it yourself, the Lord will not act, since you can do it yourself. But when we are helpless, the Lord will show that He is truly Lord and God.

We are called to strengthen our faith during our trials.

But before the trials set in,

we need to be prepared. Are you prepared? Is your faith strong enough to withstand the trials of life? It's very easy to love God when things are fine.

When everything is going well with us, there is no problem loving God.

But when the trials come in,

would you be able to say the same thing?

Unfortunately, many of our Catholics are not prepared.

They're not prepared for the trials ahead of them, because they don't strengthen their faith. They don't nurture their faith. They do not pray. They have no real encounter with the Lord. Their faith is a nominal faith. It's just attending Mass once a week, say a few prayers. Their faith is not grounded, not rooted in Jesus. When the storms come,
they'll be frightened like the apostles. And in their fright, in their fear,
what do they do? They go and look for other gods, other religions, New Age movement.
Whatever it is, to solve their problems.

And when no one can save them,

then they turn to Jesus. Because Jesus for them is always the last resort. Not because they have faith in Jesus. Because they have no other choice. My dear brothers and sisters, we need to be ready to face the trials of life. That is why we need to keep on asking this question every day - Who is Jesus? What kind of man is He? Is He just a man? A great teacher? A philosopher? A person who was once great, now died and gone? Or is He your Lord? Is He your God?

If He is, then why do you fear?

That is what the Lord is saying, "If I am your God, if I am your Lord, then why do you fear? Simply because He said, "You men of little faith."

