There are many people in the world that aspire for leadership. The important question that we need to ask is, are they seeking leadership for themselves or for the people that they love dearly? it is important that those of us who are electing leaders in our communities, in our organisations, we must be discerning of their motives, in why these people are seeking leadership. Competency is not good enough for someone to be elected into leadership. Because the person can use his talents all for the wrong reasons and especially for himself.

metimes when we see bad leaders in society, who ought to be blamed? I don'hink the blame is entirely on the bad leaders. The people who elect them are equally responsible. Because what you choose is what you get. A leader is not hired. When we speak of a hired leader, we are speaking in terms of remuneration, in terms of what he can get as a leader.
Remuneration, not necessarily in monetary terms. It could be glory, power, status. If these are the reasons that someone seek leadership, they will make bad leaders.
This is not to say we cannot pay our leaders. Surely we need to sustain them or else they cannot do their work properly. But that should not be the motivation.

The primary motivation of a leader must cause he believe in a cause. He has a vision. He has a mission. And he is motivated by his conviction that his vision that he has is for the good of his people, the people that he loves as if the people are his own. Unless the leader is identified with his people, he will not sacrifice his life for them.
On the contrary, he will sacrifice their lives for himself. How do we know a person is a real leader? When he is genuinely in love with his people, when he is always concerned about the people's welfare before his own. And that is why he is reaching out to these people. A leader cannot have a tunnel vision. It is not enough for a leader to take care of his own people, to take care of his clan, his organisation. This would be short-sighted. Jesus came to die not just for Christians, not just for the Jews. He came to die for all of humanity.
And it is true for us. We cannot be so focused on organisation and become so myopic. Because if we are concerned about the success of our organisation, about the well-being of our people, it is so that they can contribute to the rest of humanity.

We are not an island. We are all one big family, regardless of race, language or religion. We have the same origin with the same destiny. And therefore no one can be excluded.
And that is why it's very important that every organisation is for the service of a greater community. That is why this protectionism is a myopic idea. It's all about myself, my country, my nation, my race, my religion. There would be no peace.
You cannot build a kingdom of peace by dividing people. Everyone is important to our Lord, not just only Christians.

Everyone. Because everyone is called to be a child of God.

Everyone is created in the image and likeness of God. And it's important for us to realise that whatever gifts we have is never for ourselves.

Never keep to ourselves. Whatever gifts the Lord has blessed us is always for the service of others. For the greater good of humanity.

Not even for our families alone. Beyond our families. That is why the Church does not exist for herself. The Church is not a little conclave where we gather together, we share together, we pray together, we worship together, eliminated from the rest of the world. That is not the Church. The Church exists for humanity.

That is why the church is called to be a sacrament of love and unity. And that is what we are called to do. There are so many other people who have not known Christ and we are called to proclaim Christ to them. Of course not all will come to believe in Him. Conversion is the work of God. Even if they didn't come to believe in Him explicitly as Lord and Saviour, if they embrace the Gospel values,

we would have done a great job of bringing all of humanity into one family. After all, we have one ultimate destination.

That is God. That is why in the teaching of Vatican II, in 'Gaudium et spes' (22),

the Church says - this salvation is not only given to us Christians but to all men of goodwill because grace is at work invisibly. In 'Lumen gentium' (16),

again Vatican II teaches us that all those people who are non-Christians, who are seeking God, they somehow if they follow their conscience, they too will come to know Him. Even though these are rays of truth that they have received, but they too will be accepted. And so my dear brothers and sisters, with confidence we continue to proclaim Christ to all.

