When people honour us, when we have done well in life, today we are rich, today we are somebody in society, how do we feel?

Do we feel great about ourselves?

Do we feel that we have earned all these glories because we have worked hard, because it is all our strength, our ingenuity, because we are so smart, so intelligent, so gifted?

If we think that way, then we are wrong.

We are only human beings.

Without God's blessing, without His grace,
we are nothing.

Everything that we have comes from Him.

Even our health, our grey matter, the situation that we are in, without His grace we can do nothing.

And that is why when people praise us, do we really give glory back to God?

And if we do, is it just a lip service?

You know, there are some people, when we praise them and we thank them, they really believe that they are the ones who have done all these things, who have accomplished all these.

And even if they give glory to God, sometimes it's just a lip service.

Deep in their hearts, they think that they are the ones.

How do you know?

If you are truly humbled by the praises of people, by the acknowledgement that people give to us and you really believe in your heart that without His grace, without His help, we can't do anything, then indeed you truly give praise to God.

When we begin to glorify ourselves, we make ourselves empty idols because we are really worshipping another idol.

And that idol is ourselves.

We want to be the Mr Idol of the world.

We want people to worship us, to glorify us.

An idol is something that is empty.

And it is true.

There are so many people in the world, celebrities,
they give a lot of glory to themselves.

Dangerous.

The day when we can no longer deliver, the day when we can no longer please the people,

the day when we can no longer give what the people ask, they will dump us.

We are nobody.

Our time will come when we have to leave our office.

A time will come when we lose our health.

A time will come when we will be nobody.

So don'hink too highly of the office that you are holding, the position that you are in.

All these will be taken away.

And what will happen?

Everybody will leave you.

That's why only God is faithful.

And so it's important for us all to remind ourselves that we are called to give glory to God.

That does not mean to say, we don't have a role to play.

We have.

But our role is dependant on God's grace.

At the end of the day, it is cooperating with God's grace.

Because without Him, we have no strength.

And it's very important for those of us who are working in the Church, working for the world, those of us who are organisers, teachers,
speakers.

Don'hink that it is because we are so talented,
so gifted, that people's lives are touched,

that things are doing well.

Without the Holy Spirit opening the minds of people, there will be no consensus.

Without the Holy Spirit striking the hearts of people, no matter how well we preach, how well we teach, people's lives will not be changed.

They will not be touched.

Only the Holy Spirit can open their hearts.

We are just only like John the Baptist.

Just only a voice, an instrument.

But it is the Lord who works.

And so, don'hink too highly of ourselves.

That is why all the more, if we truly want to do God's work, what must we do?

We must let God dwell in us.

Intimacy with the Lord is the key to doing well the work of God and giving Him glory.

