Today, all of us are leaders in different ways. Leaders in organisations, parents are also leaders in their family lives, we are leaders in our departments. So all of us somehow exercise leadership. And leadership always involve making decisions. And the decisions that we make are important because they have implications, and not just for ourselves,

but for those people under our care. That is the reason why those of us who are in leadership,

in positions of leadership, we must be very discerning and careful on how we make decisions and how our decisions can affect those people under our charge. In this case for those of us who are parents, we just have to remember this - as a parent, every decision that you make for yourself will have serious implication for your family, for your children, for your spouse. And so we have to take decision making seriously. A wrong decision will cause tremendous harm. And that is the reason why it is very important for us as leaders to be discerning and to calculate the consequences of whatever decisions we are taking. Those of us who make decisions, not only we have to be sure that the decisions we make are really for the good of our people. A good leader must always make decisions not for himself. That is how a leader works because it's always the people's interest coming first. And so it's very important for us that as a leader, we have to see that the decisions we make will benefit the people.

The first thing when we make a mistake as a leader, we ask giveness. If a leader is actually conscious of his own imperfections,
of his mistakes and ready to ask for mercy,

then the Lord will always be forgiving. But on the other hand, the forgiveness of God does not mean to say that no punishment will take place. Because what we reap is what we sow. God cannot prevent all the consequences that arise from our actions. So when God forgives,

the consequences sometimes can be prevented,
but not all the time. It's very important that we pray through our decisions. We need to consult God. And this is where the praying involves discernment of the spirit and we discern whether what we are doing is really for the good of everyone. A leader that makes decisions without praying will certainly destroy himself and destroy others. Whatever decisions we make, we have to assume responsibility,

good or bad.

