The richness of the Catholic Church is that we are 2,000 years old. We have 2,000 years of rich tradition,

of governance structure,

of a hierarchical priesthood,

devotions, strong spirituality over 2,000 years, and liturgical rules as well.

While it has kept the Church stable,

has kept the Church strong,

but very often, because of repetition,
many Catholics just fall into the routine of observing the rich traditions of the Church, without thinking, without reflecting, without interiorising. That is why although many Catholics observe all the traditions of the Church, the commandments of the Church, you find that they have no life. They are not excited about Jesus. They have no real relationship with Jesus.

They are only concerned about observing the rituals,

celebrating the sacraments.

But do they have a real relationship with Jesus? Many of them do not have. It's a routine they go through Sunday after Sunday, or day after day even. But there is no change of heart. There is no joy in their faith. In fact, my dear brothers and sisters, if you find you are lacking joy in your faith, it means to say, you have lost that relationship with Jesus. Religion has become just a set of rules and rituals. It cannot give you life,

only makes you burdened,

miserable.

And this is so true. So what do we do?
Should we change our structures, the way we govern the Church? Should we change all the liturgy and the devotions? There are different perspectives to this. And all apparently founded in Scriptures. There are those who would quote Jesus. Jesus say, "New wine must not be put into old wine skin. New wine must be put into new wine skin." So there are those who are calling the Church to have a change.
A renewal of everything. Renewal of structure,

renewal of the priesthood, renewal of religious life, renewal of the liturgy,

renewal of catechesis, renewal in evangelisation. This is certainly helpful to bring the Church into relevance with the word today.

Because many people feel that the Church is getting outdated. We are so sticky with our traditions that we cannot move beyond the parameters that have been set out by our forefathers. We are doing
 the same thing over and over again.

And there are many young people, they are leaving the Church because they cannot connect with the Church anymore.
They find our worship boring, unfulfilling,

and so many have left the Church.
But there is another group of people,

therefore, the traditionalists. People prefer the old ways, the traditional ways. This group of people says,
"Oh, you know, all these modern fellows,

all these modern activities, all
 the charismatic renewal, all these things,

you know, they don't go to the heart of faith. So we must retain our traditions.

We must educate them to understand the traditions. The reason why they are leaving the Church, the reason why they are going for other forms of worship is because they don't understand the traditions. So, the key is to help them to understand the traditions.

And so what do we try to do?

Unfortunately, we didn'ake Jesus' instructions seriously. Jesus says,

"No one puts a piece of unshrunken cloth to an old cloth, because the patch pulls away from the cloth and the tear gets worse." What we have tried to do, for most of us, we try to have a fusion. Something about the old, something about the new. We try to merge them together And sometimes, unfortunately, it's a mismatch.

We try to fuse cultures, we try to fuse different practices and it becomes like a crooked bridge. This is where sometimes when you try too hard, we find a lot of tension, a lot of conflicts among Catholics trying to be faithful to the Church and trying to bring Jesus to others.

My dear brothers and sisters,
what must we do?

Jesus, actually at the end of Matthew's Gospel in chapter 13, He said,

"A good householder is one who brings both old and new from his storeroom."

Not everything can be blended. But
 the Church believes in unity in diversity.

The old has its values. The new way of worship, the new way of encountering Jesus also has its values. I think it needs a docile mind, an open heart to accept both, depending e's preference.
At the end of the day, it doesn't whether it's old or new actually. What matters is did you encounter Jesus?

Did you grow in love for God, for your fellowmen?

Are you a true Christian? Are you burned with zeal in the house of God?

Will you become a great evangeliser?
Whichever way, if it doesn't help you be a real missionary for Christ, then I think it has not served its purpose.

Let us judge by the fruits. Not by whether it is old, not by whether it is new.

