The world is really a bewilderment to all of us. Trends are changing so fast because of technological advancement.

Not only the world is changing,

cultures are changing, values are changing. And many of us are not able to understand the implications of the current trends in the world with regards to family, with regards to life, and the use of technology. And more so, we are living in a world that are without values, without morality, without a sense of what is right and wrong, good or evil.

All of us, we are living in this world.

We cannot but be influenced by the values of the world.

That is why many of our Catholics,

the values that they cultivate are the values of the world. Their faith in Christ is only a nominal faith, a verbal faith.

It's not a real faith in Him.

The holiness of the Church today is compromised. Even priests have got themselves involved in all kinds of scandals. Very disheartening for the Church, for our people. That is why many Catholics have left the Church because they are disillusioned that even religious leaders whom they have great respect have failed them. And they begin to wonder whether Christ is real after all.

So my dear brothers and sisters, if today you feel discouraged, if we are bewildered and fearful, if we think that the boat, the ship that is the Church is sinking, you are wrong. Because Jesus is in that boat. Jesus is in that ship.

He might be sleeping,

or at least apparently sleeping, but He is not.

He is with the Church.

It's a question of whether we have enough faith in Him.

If you believe that Jesus is truly the Son of God,

truly the living God,

Son of the Eternal Father,

then every word that Jesus said can be relied on. That is why Jesus said, "On this Rock, on the faith of St Peter, I will build my Church." This faith, of course,

is not something that we can reason out.
Because you require faith, faith in divine revelation. Peter and his successors today, the Pope, our Holy Father, they are critical to maintain the Church, because they are the ones who protect the unity of the Church. The moment we no longer accept the Pope as the head of the Church, the Catholic Church will fall apart. Because we'll lose the central of authority, we'll lose the direction. That's why the Holy Father is so important in the Catholic Church.
He is the one who safeguards the interests of the Church, brings the Church together, unites the Church together. That is why we believe that the Holy Father is protected, is given the gift of infallibility when he is teaching morals and doctrines. Otherwise he can make mistakes. He is not a perfect person. But when it comes to the doctrines and morals,

we believe in order to safeguard the Church, Jesus would have given him that divine authority. Right through the history of the Church, Jesus knew the Church would be persecuted. Jesus allowed Peter's mistake to happen, so that he will be stronger. And that is why, my dear brothers and sisters, do not fear when you hear all the scandals of the Church. All this is part of the purifying process. We will come out of it stronger, holier, more purified and deeper in faith. All these scandals of the Church are not new. In the history of the Church for 2,000 years,

this had happened and the Lord has been with us. It is important for us to keep on praying for the Holy Father. He has a very difficult task to unite the Church, to protect the Church. That is why at every Mass, we remember the Holy Father and the Bishops because we are one in this magisterium trying to hold the Church together in unity, in love, in faith. The Church has to be strong first before we can evangelise, to go out into the world. That is why Pope Francis, he has this strength in him. He is the one who wants to safeguard the Church, but he doesn't want to fossilise the Church. He wants the Church to go out to proclaim the Gospel, to be missionary minded.

