Jesus was not ashamed to call us His brothers and sisters. All of us who are His ministers and His disciples are identified in Him, not just with Him. And it is for this reason, it is very important, first and foremost, that we need to welcome and to assist the ministers of Christ in His priest, in His religious and all those who are in full time ministry proclaiming the Gospel. These include our lay workers,
our lay formators. And this is important, especially those who are in ordained ministry. For us priests, we are called to act "In persona Christi", that means "In the person of Christ". The priest always acts in Christ. That's why the priest celebrates the sacraments. And the priest is also acting "In persona Christi capitis",

that means the head of the community representing Christ. And so it is right,

therefore, that the people of God must welcome the ministers of Christ as they welcome Him. And therefore, it is the responsibility of the people of God to look after the ministers of the Gospel.
It is a duty. Because why? The Gospel is proclaimed free of charge. Jesus told His disciples, "Give without charge,

because you received without charge." We are dependent on the generosity and the goodwill of the people of God. Generally,
our priests do not receive a salary, but an allowance, a small stipend for their personal needs, because all the other needs are paid for by the Archdiocese.
The material needs of our priests are certainly well looked after because of your generosity, because of your kindness. To support the priest, to support the ministers of God is more than just material support. What they need from you is your encouragement, help,

you assistance in the ministry they are doing.

As ministers of God, we cannot do everything by ourselves.

Of course, we have full time workers, but very few, because the Church cannot afford to employ too many full time workers for the vineyard of the Lord. We don't have that money to pay for so many workers. So most of the time, the Church is dependent on volunteers. But you know, if you look at every church, the number of people who are helping the Church, supporting the Church is about 10%. Maximum 15% of our faithful are rendering their resources, their time, their energy to assist in the running of the Church. And I can tell you, my dear brothers and sisters, our Catholics,
they have high expectations, many demands. They want us to do everything.
Yes, but who is going to do the work?

Have you ever asked yourself? We cannot afford to employ too many workers. And volunteers, where to get them? And most of our volunteers are about my age, 60 and above. All, you know, are very vulnerable to COVID-19. But these are the ones who will come and help. Not the younger ones. Yes, my dear brothers and sisters,

we have many Catholics. They are demanding. They are backbenchers,

criticising, complaining, which is all so true. I agree. I received so many complaints, you know, about our volunteers, about our church workers, about priests even and also Bishop of course.
Yeah, we are not good enough. Please forgive us. But since we are not good enough, then perhaps you would be the best person. Yes, we hope you will be able to show us the good example. Then you must give yourself to serve God, to raise up the Church. Complaining, lamenting,

nothing's going to change. Don't just criticise. Do something. Change the situation. Don't just curse the darkness. Light the candle. And of course,

when we are talking about ministering to the people of God, it's not just only the pries. Because Jesus in the Gospel also tells us, to welcome Christ means to welcome even the little ones. Who are the little ones? The vulnerable, the sick, the elderly. These are very important people to the Church. In fact,

these are the treasures of the Church.
Do you realise this? The treasures of the Church are the poor, the sick,
because they show us the face of God.

They teach us how to love, they teach us how to give. They teach us patience. If all of us are encouraging one another,
supporting one another, helping each other to build the community, this would be such a wonderful Church. A real sacrament, a sign of Jesus to the world. If only we cared for one another using our blessings that we have received from God to bless others. We have many blessings. But when you bless others with whatever blessings you receive, you will be blessed in return.

If you repay evil with a blessing, you will inherit a blessing yourself. When you give yourself, you will attract people. We inspire people to give themselves. The more you give, the more you receive. This is the principle of life. When you welcome Jesus, when you become the minister of God, what do you get? You'll get His blessing, you'll get His love. And the priests, the prophets will bless you.

He will guide your family, to help you to encounter God's forgiveness. When you serve the poor,

when you care for those who are vulnerable, the weak, and when you see the smile on their faces. Oh that smile, my dear brothers and sisters, will give you the joy that no amount of money you can give. The joy of giving joy to others.

This is incomparable. Unless we focus and centre ourselves in Christ, we cannot see Christ in others. We cannot see Christ in our spouse, in our children, because all of us are sinners,
then we will not be so forgiving. We will be intolerant. But when we put Christ at the centre of our lives, we will always be loving, be humble, be generous, be caring like Jesus. When you love Jesus most, you will love your spouse, your children as much or even more. So the key is not loving your spouse and your children first. Or your friend. Love Jesus first. He will give you the capacity to love the way He has loved us.

