One of the spiritual exercises during the season of Lent, of course, is to pray.

During the season of Lent, the Church invites us to pray more fervently. But what does it mean to pray? How do we pray? This is the question that is answered in today'cripture readings. The first thing we must remember is that we should not pray as Jesus has told us in today's Gospel, do not pray like the pagans. Do not think, he said, if you use many words, especially if you speak King's English or Queen's English, your prayers will be heard. It doesn't mean that just because you shout, you scream, the Lord will hear your prayers. All these things are not necessary because today in the Gospel, Jesus has told us, "Do not be like them. Your Father knows what you need before you ask Him." So the Lord knows what you need in your heart. We do not have to scream and shout or to terrorise God into answering our prayers. So how then should we pray? It is important that if we want to pray well,
we must understand the spirit of prayer and the principles of prayer. If we want to have our prayers answered, then of course, we must pray with the mind of God.
That is why in the Gospel, Jesus said many times, "If you ask anything in my name, I will give to you." What is it to ask in His name? To ask in His name means to have the same mind of God. To have the same mind of God, therefore, means that we share in what He wants for us. And that is why in today's first reading from the prophet Isaiah,

we are told, "The word that goes from my mouth does not return to me empty without carrying out my will and succeeding in what it was sent to do." So to have the mind of God simply means to pray the way God wants us to pray, to desire what God wants for us. And so you notice that the most powerful form of prayer, the only prayer that actually you need to learn, is to pray the scriptures, because the scriptures are the inspired Word of God.
Unfortunately, Catholics they only know how to use the formula prayers, because you can pray the formula prayers like pagans. Just babble through without understanding what you are praying,

without interiorising what we are praying. You ask Catholics, the moment they pray, they say the Lord's Prayer, the Hail Mary and the Glory Be. All these things can be recited without even thinking about them. What is important is to pray with the heart of God. And the heart of God precisely is found in the scriptures.

That is why you notice that in the Liturgy of the Church, whether it's the Mass,

the antiphons, scripture readings,
the Liturgy of the Hours, in all the liturgical celebration,
the Church makes use of Scripture as our prayer. That is why the Liturgy of the Hours is a very powerful form of prayer.

But you notice among all the liturgical celebrations, there is one prayer the Church will never leave out. It is the Lord's Prayer. Because the Lord's Prayer is THE prayer. Because this prayer is taught by Our Lord Himself. And this prayer is the pattern of all prayers. It captures all the principles of what a good prayer should contain. And so today we are given the principles of prayer. So when we pray, Jesus said, how do we pray?
First and foremost, we must have the right attitude towards God. How do you see God?
Is God just your King? Someone that you fear? Or is God your Father? So that is why Jesus says, when you pray, you say, "Our Father". Because if God is your Father then you can approach him for every problem, every need. There is nothing to fear.

Every frustration you have, we can bring to our Father. Even your jealousy, your envy, your resentment, you can bring to the Heavenly Father because he is your Father.

He knows what you need and He is there to listen to you.

He is not there to punish you. So your attitude towards God must be one of Father. If you really believe that God is your Father, you pray with confidence and with humility and with surrender. Then the second thing you pray is, you say "Our Father", you say,  "in Heaven". To say that God is in Heaven does not mean to say, "Oh, He is transcendent in Heaven and poor thing I'm here below. Poor thing, God is so far away. No wonder He cannot hear us."
That is not what we mean. When we say,

"Our Father is in Heaven", I told you, where is Heaven? Heaven is everywhere. So when we say, "Our Father is in Heaven", what we mean is that God is transcendent.

But God is not only transcendent. He is also immanent. Transcendent in the sense that God is above all our problems. He is identified with us in our sufferings but He is not overwhelmed. That is what we mean when we say that God is in Heaven. For us, we are overwhelmed,
especially when your children come to you with so many problems. The moment you hear them,
you get headache, you get angry, you get agitated. We have limits. Even the Bishop got limits. So many problems, we get agitated because it can be overwhelming.
But for God, He will not be overwhelmed by our problems. He can identify with us,
can suffer with us, He will not be crushed. But we can be crushed. So that is what we mean, "Our Father in Heaven".

And then we say, "May your name be held holy."
What do we mean? Of course, God's name is always holy. But the problem is, we are not. So when we say. "May your name be held holy",

what we are saying really is, "May the lives we live, reflect Your life." Because if we call God our Father, then we are His children. Every child reflects his or her parent. If your child is successful,
you will think you are the one who is responsible for your child'uccess. So we reflect our parents, for better or for worse. So when we say, "May Your name be held holy",
what we really mean is this - may we s of integrity. A person who lives a life of integrity is always holy.

A very balanced life. A life that is in control. And then the next thing we pray is, "Your Kingdom come". Why? Because you notice, the Lord's Prayer is the prayer of the Kingdom. The whole life of Jesus was to establish the Kingdom of God.

Jesus had only one message in His life,
which is the Kingdom. Why the Kingdom?

The Kingdom is nothing else but the reign of God's love. If we allow God's love to reign in our lives, then we will share in His joy, we share in His happiness.

That's why the Lord's Prayer is formed in the context of the Sermon on the Mount.

Because the Sermon on the Mount is really a sermon on the Kingdom, how do we live a Kingdom life. The Beatitudes, the Sermon on the Mount, they give us the principles of how we should live the Kingdom life. And so if we pray, "Your Kingdom come", we are saying, "Lord, whatever you have taught us, all the values, all the principles, we embrace." We want to live this Kingdom life. And finally, we say,

"Your will be done",
because it is in doing God's will that we find peace. That is why Jesus says, "My food is to do the will of the Father".

Once we have these principles, then the second part of the Lord's Prayer, all the other petitions will flow. In fact, all the other petitions do not make sense unless they are prayed in the context of the Kingdom. And so we pray, my dear brothers and sisters, that we will appreciate and learn to interiorise the Lord's Prayer,

so that the Lord's Prayer becomes really truly for us the pattern and the summary of all prayers.

