One of the most beautiful sacraments the Lord has bequeathed to the Church and to all of us, is the Sacrament of Reconciliation. Unfortunately,

many Catholics do not make use of these sacraments because they have an inadequate understanding of the Sacrament of Reconciliation. They think it is a sacrament where you go and pour out your sins and do your laundry service. And then after that,
your sins are forgiven.

The truth, my dear brothers and sisters,
the Sacrament of Reconciliation is more than just the forgiveness of sins. After Vatican II, it is called the Sacrament of Healing.

Healing of body, mind and spirit.
That is why only priests can do the Sacrament of Anointing because before anointing, we would encourage the person to make the Sacrament of Reconciliation first.

And the reason is simple. Because the healing of the body and the healing of the mind, that is the soul, they are closely related. The body is sick because the mind, the soul is sick,

because the body is the window of the spirit.

Indeed,

in the Scriptures,

sin is a cause of bodily illnesses,
because we share in the fallen nature of Adam.

That is why we are susceptible to illnesses, to disease, disorientation of the will, pain and of course, death.

And so it is very important, my dear brothers and sisters, if we want to have real healing of the body,

it must be preceded by the healing of the mind, the healing of the soul. That is why there are some people who are so concerned about bodily healing, and they can go to see doctors and even be prayed over, and very soon they fall sick again. Because the real problem is not healed. It is a spiritual sickness. When we commit sins, when we do things that are wrong, when we have irregular relationships and so on,

our minds are disturbed. Our heart is not free. We are not at peace. And these will be manifested in our body. We fall into depression. We get angry with people. We fight with people. And that leads us into a deeper depression because we are hurt, we are wounded and we cannot get out of it.

When we sin, we forget we are children of God.

And that is what the devil is telling you, "You are not a child of God. You are my child."

And Jesus said, "No, you are my child."

Why does God ask man to forgive sins on His behalf? Because we are incarnational beings. We need to hear words of forgiveness.

We are not pure spirit. That is why God became Man in Jesus, so that we can feel and hear God telling us, "Your sins are forgiven."

And that's the reason why the Church is given this power to forgive sins through His priest.

Whenever the priest exercise forgiveness in the name of Jesus, our sins are forgiven. Of course, the priest has no power.

The power came from Jesus.

That's why many Catholics say, " Why must we go to the priest for confession? Why can't we confess directly to God?" Can. In fact the Church has given us this possibility.

The Church says like now in times of COVID-19. Some people ask me, "Bishop, why don't you give a general absolution?"

There is no need to, my dear brothers and sisters, because the Church also says if you make an act of perfect contrition, you are truly sorry for your sins, your sins are forgiven.

But whether it is an act of perfect contrition or whether it's general absolution,

when the opportunity arises, you must go for confession. It doesn't mean to say that general absolution, your sins are forgiven. You don't have to go for confession. When the opportunity arises,
you still have to go. And why? Because if you don't articulate your sins, and you don't hear the words of forgiveness,

there will not be a deep healing. We need someone to tell us, especially someone who's a representative of God to say, "My child, your sins are forgiven."

That is how the Sacrament of Reconciliation developed in the Church.

Christ has given the authority to forgive sins to Peter, when he declared Him to be the Son of the living God. And at Pentecost, Jesus again gave all the apostles the power to retain, to forgive, to heal, to reconcile.

That's why St James in James 5:14, he says, "Confess your sins to one another. Bring the elder into the community. He will pray over you, confess your sins and you will be forgiven."

Because the prayers of a holy man can work wonders.

That is how the Sacrament of Reconciliation developed. Because we need tangible signs. So don't bluff yourself, "Oh, I can confess directly to God." If that is the case, next time if your loved ones hurt you or you hurt your wife, your children don't say sorry.

And hopefully, you won't hear them saying you are forgiven. Of course, we need to hear. We are human beings. If we need to hear from your fellow men, surely you need to hear from God. And who represents God? The priest as the head of the local community, in your parish, the Bishop as the Head of the Diocese.

And so you know, my dear brothers and sisters, this is so beautiful a gift that the Lord has entrusted to the Church, for us to heal us, not just our soul but heal us bodily. We are all called to exercise the Gospel, to preach the Gospel of repentance and conversion.
St James says in James 5, if you bring someone back to God, you will be rewarded. You will get a tenfold blessing when you bring a sinner back to God. Those people who are having sufferings in life, those people who are sinners, we need to bring them back to Jesus. We don't have to do anything.
Just bring them back to Jesus. Jesus will do the rest. But you must have faith first. Because faith inspires faith. If we have strong faith, we will give courage and strength to those who lack faith. So that when they encounter Jesus, when they celebrate the Sacrament of Reconciliation, when they come into contact with the Christian community, when they celebrate the Mass with us, then Jesus will touch them, will heal them and will move them to tears, repentance,
reconciliation and healing.

