In the Gospel, we have James and John, as usual, children always make use of their mothers. And the mother was responsible in bowing low, that means just whisper to Jesus, "Please put my sons on the left and right of your kingdom." And so this question of ambition is brought out into today'cripture readings.
The disciples were ambitious. They wanted to be seated on the left and the right hand of Jesus. And not only James and John, of course,
even the other ten, of course, they were a bit slow compared to James and John. But they were envious certainly, that they did not ask Jesus for this privilege to be seated on His left and right." So the question this morning we need to ask therefore, is it wrong for us to seek positions of leadership? Is it being too ambitious and egoistic on our part to offer ourselves for leadership? Or should we wait to be called for leadership? And even when we are called for leadership,
we try to act modest - "No I cannot, but please say some more. You please say some more,
then I will say ok, I am ready for leadership." The truth is we all need leaders. We need good leaders for the country, for the Church, for the world. We cannot do without good leaders. So the real question we need to ask is not whether we should assume leadership.

It is the motive for us to seek positions in leadership. TS Eliot once said, "The greatest treason is that we do the right things for the wrong reasons." So it is the motive of what we want to do as leaders. If our motives are for self service, that is precisely what was happening in today's Gospel. If we are seeking to serve ourselves for our own enrichment, for our own wealth and power to control others, this kind of leadership is therefore not in accordance with what God wills for us. And this is very true,

that today many people are seeking positions in leadership, simply in order to be famous, to be great, to have power over others. And this happens not just in the world, but also happens often even within the Church. We have church organisations trying to compete with each other to see which is the best choir compared to the other one. We also want to continue to hold on to our positions for life. We must be the president of this organisation for life until death do us part. So that is the kind of attitude that some of us have.

And so it's very important for us really,
to understand if we are seeking for positions in leadership, the most important question we need to ask is simply this, can we make a real difference in the lives of our people whom we are called to served? If you feel that you can make a real difference, then perhaps the Lord is calling you to leadership. And therefore it is not about yourself.
It is about uplifting the lives of people. It is about building up an organisation. It is about empowering people. It is about enriching people's lives. That is the purpose of leadership. And for this reason, it is important for us that when we seek positions in leadership, we need to really ask the Lord whether that is our calling. How do you know that is your calling?
Because the Lord will always qualify those whom He has chosen. If the Lord calls you for leadership, He will give you the necessary talents. Again there are many of you actually, who are called to leadership, but you have hidden talents because you do not know them.

metimes when you are called upon to assume leadership, all your talents are unveiled as you assume the leadership,
because you have been called. But it's also equally true that because leadership is to make a difference in the people's lives that we serve,
therefore we must be gracious enough. If we see someone who can do a better job than us, then we should actually give way to the person who can do a better job.
That is why leadership requires humility. Today in the Gospel, Jesus said,
"Anyone who wants to be great among you must be your servant. Anyone who wants to be first among you must be a slave. Just as the Son of Man came not to be served but to serve and to give His life as a ransom for many."
Leadership, at the end of the day, is always for the good of the people.
It is for the common good. And so we should not use leadership to serve ourselves. That is why a great leader is one who is always thinking about the greater good that he can offer to the community that he is in charge. And that is why my Bishop's motto is

"Ut Vivant". Because in order to be a leader,
we must be willing to die for the people that we are serving. In order that they live, we have to die because that is what the Good Shepherd is all about. The Good Shepherd, as Jesus tells us in the Gospel, he lays down his life for his sheep. He is not a hired servant.

If you are hired servant, it is different. A hired servant will work only if he has good remuneration. He is always looking at what he can get out of it, not what he can give. If you give me this much, I will give you that much. And so a hired servant, as Jesus says, when challenges come, when difficulties come, they were run away because he is a hired person. This is why it's very important to ask ourselves, how do you know that you are called to leadership? When you are no more a hired servant. Yes, you can be paid but remuneration is not everything.

A leader is one who lives for a vision. A leader is one who has a mission to fulfill. The vision and mission is the most important, not the remuneration.

He has a certain conviction that he is called to live by. And his whole heart and mind is in fulfilling the mission entrusted to him. That is what leadership is all about. If you do not have a conviction of a certain mission to accomplish, then you just a hired worker. You are just working for the money, working for the privileges but you are not working for the people. That is why today in the Gospel, we have Jesus. He was going to Jerusalem ,the place of death and glory.

And he was all focused. He was not afraid of the sufferings before him, although He knew, because Jesus was working for a vision and the mission that the Father has given to Him. Same thing like Jeremiah. Jeremiah, he was rejected by the people and yet Jeremiah remained faithful to his mission, because the Lord called him. So how do you tell whether you are really called to be a leader? Very easy. In times of crisis, do you abandon your mission because the mission is daunting, the mission is difficult or because you are not paid sufficiently? If you are living for vision and a mission, then all these things are secondary. So that is very clear. So today let us pray that we will be like Jesus and Jeremiah. Let us be focused on our mission. And we can do this only if we are always in the presence of God.

