The trouble with this world, the secular world is that they want to find the truth without God.

Religions are marginalised from dialogue with the world. You cannot find truth without God. This search for God is in the depths of every human heart. You cannot deny it.
That is what the secular world wants to deny.
The secular world will not succeed.

You cannot extinguish this deep desire of the human heart for God. That is why St Augustine tells us,

"We are restless until our hearts rest in Him." And so in the history of humanity,

in the history of religions, we give different names to God.

But the truth remains. Even in today's world,

people are looking for God. That is why those who are living in a scientific world,
they will also come to realise that something is missing.
This is the reason why many people today are interested in new age movement because it's a combination of science and the esoteric religions. They are looking for peace, love, joy.

Something that the mind and the heart can find satisfaction. The thirst remains in every human person.
We cannot deny this thirst.

My dear brothers and sisters, this method of engaging those who do not have faith in God,
perhaps is one of the best methods that we need to use today in this secular world, in our dialogue with atheists, agnostics, people of other faith.

Today, no religion, not even Christianity would dare to say we are the only true faith, all the other faiths are all corrupted, they are from the evil spirit.

No one would say that today.
Because you will stir up violence,

anger, hatred. It is dangerous.
Today, we need to have respect for other people's religions and belief,
even though we might ourselves not subscribe to their belief. That doesn't matter.

The point is, we need to respect other people's religion. And so it is where the necessity for dialogue and understanding.
And this is the way the Church manages her relationship with non-Christian religions. In the decree on the Church's relationship with non-Christian religions,
'Nostra aetate'. In No. 1, the Church says,
you know, all of us, we have one community of humanity.
We are one. All human beings belong to the same human race.
We come from the same origin and we have the same destiny.
So that is why even though we might come from different religions,
our origin, our goal is the same.

But the way we want to arrive at this would differ. But then the Church in

'Nostra aetate'
reminds us, these religions they have rays of truth.
And so the Church acknowledges that in other religions, we have more in common, especially in the areas of religious encounter,
in the areas of prayer, meditation,

fasting. All religions teach us to do good. All religions speak about justice, love, compassion, forgiveness.

All religions ultimately seek the good.
They seek the truth. That is the reason why in our engagement with people from other faith,
we need to emphasise what we have in common, not what divides us.
Those things that divide us, we need to have patient dialogue, humility and understanding. But my dear brothers and sisters,

there is something we still have to say.
Although natural theology, which is what we call the way of reasoning in engaging people of other faith or those who are unbelievers totally, there is a certain limit.

Because Christianity ultimately requires faith.

Without faith, we would not be able to believe in Christ.

That's why, what divides Christianity from the rest of the other religions,

what makes us Christians claim that Jesus is the Saviour and the Lord of all,

is simply because of our faith in the Resurrection of Christ. It is this faith that makes us confident to say He is Lord and Saviour.
But if we have not encountered Jesus in the Resurrection, then we cannot make this claim.

So we cannot actually afford non-believers, people from other faith,

because they never had this encounter with the Risen Lord.
That is why reason can only bring them to a level where we say what we have in common.

But reason alone cannot bring them to faith in Jesus. So that is why conversion is not sitting in the lecture hall and then the speaker, the lecturer will try to prove that Jesus is the Risen Lord.
We can show, we can illustrate that our faith is not unreasonable, yes.
But ultimately it requires to have faith in the Risen Lord. We need to make a leap of faith.

How does this faith comes about? Not through reasoning alone. Reasoning can help to some extent.
it is openness, receptivity to the testimonies of those people who have encountered Him.

So non-Christians, they don't have the Scriptures, they don't share our Scriptures.
So they don't believe in the testimonies of people who have encountered the Lord.
The reason why we have faith in Jesus is because of the testimonies of the Apostles of the early Church. It is these testimonies that help us to open up ourselves. That is why if we really want to have a person to come to faith,
talking about Jesus, explaining about Jesus is just the first level. We need to help them to encounter Jesus.
That is why don'alk about conversion without prayers. It is the prayer, the encounter with Jesus in a very personal way,
that they will be touched and converted.

That is why apologetics has its limits. Don'hink just because you win an argument,
you have won the heart. You can win an argument but you have lost the heart,
you have lost the person. So it's a question of mediating an encounter with Jesus.

Only possible through prayer and the work of the Holy Spirit that opens the hearts of others.
When we dialogue with non-Christians,

they might not believe,
but we have sown the seed of faith.

A time will come when the Holy Spirit will enlighten them.

And perhaps then will they have faith in Jesus.

But other than that, we just leave them to the grace and mercy of God.

God is the Father of us all. All of us are His children.

There is only one God because He created Heaven and earth.

you

