In the Gospel, Jesus said, "Ask and it will be given to you, search and you will find, knock and the door will be opened to you."

Is this true? That is the question that most believers ask and non-believers ask as well.
Does God always answer our prayers?

If God answers our prayers, then why is it that we have terrorists that kill so many Catholics, when they were worshipping in church in Sri Lanka? If God answers our prayers, how is it that those Christians who were worshipping in the same church,

they were infected with COVID-19? How could God do such a thing to us?

And so the question is, does God really hear our prayers? If this God cannot answer our prayers, then why should we bother whether He exists or not? So many of us,

even Catholics, and it's good to ask yourself, do you really believe in the power of prayer? And I tell you,
many Catholics disguise their lack of faith. How? Firstly by reducing prayer to a cerebral relationship with God. They reduce prayers simply to meditation, reflection,
getting insight from the Word of God,

or being calm in meditation, experiencing peace in their hearts. This is not to say prayers do not bring about these effects.
Of course, they do. But if we reduce prayer simply to a question of having some esoteric knowledge of God and of ourselves, then we have reduced and compromised our relationship with God.

Then there is another group of Catholics who do not have faith in God and so they do not believe in petitionary prayer. They say the highest form of prayer is praise and worship. So we just praise and worship God. We don't ask Him for anything. After all, Jesus in the Gospel, He has told us yesterday, even before you ask, He knows. So don't ask anything, so that you will not be disappointed. That is what they mean. So this is again another attempt to hide our lack of faith in God. They said those who ask, they are infantile in their faith.

Just trust God. My dear brothers and sisters, this is an indication of the lack of understanding of praise and worship, praise and adoration.

You cannot praise God and adore God from your heart, until you have first encountered His love. But where do we encounter His love? Most of the time, in petitionary prayer. Petitionary prayer is the most basic form of prayer. It's a spontaneous prayer. When we are little children or even now adults, whenever you are in pain,

"Help me!" I mean, that is normal. You don'hink, "I'm in pain. Let me reflect hmm. How should I deal with this pain?"
Immediately if you are in pain, you say, "Help me,

Mummy! Help me, Daddy!" And so it is true for us. If God is our Creator, if God is our Sustainer, as what the Psalmist says, "Your love, O Lord, is eternal. Discard not the work of your hands." Then we can turn to our Creator. But for us Christians, as Jesus said in the Gospel. He is more than just a Creator. He is our Father.

And therefore it is only right for us to turn to our Father when we are in need. Because Jesus said, "If you, then, who are evil, know how to give your children what is good,
how much more will your Father in Heaven give good things to those who ask Him." And so for those of us who do not believe in the power of petitionary prayer, actually suffer from the sin of pride, or simply an expression of the lack of faith. Those who lack faith do not pray to God for their petitions to be answered. Those who are too proud, they think that they can do everything by themselves. They do not need the help of God. Today in the first reading, we have the story of Queen Esther. She showed us the power of petitionary prayer. She was in dire need to save her people who were being killed by her enemy Haman. She had no one to turn to. But she could not approach the king without the king inviting her because that will incur death. And so in today's first reading from the Book of Esther, we saw how desperate she was. And she said, "Come to my help, for I am alone and have no one but you, Lord." So it's important in that dire need, she turned to God because no one else could help her. She knew that even though she was queen she was not all-powerful to influence the king. And so she prayed to God to change the heart of the king. From Queen Esther we can also learn one important thing. That in petitionary prayer, we must also cooperate with the grace of God. Queen Esther used whatever means she could to get to the king. But she could get to the king, but she might not change the king's heart. So we too.

It's like this situation. Some people are asking, is the Church lacking faith for suspending the Masses? Does not the Church believe God will protect us? We do,

of course.
But God also wants us to use all human means, the resources that He has given to us to protect ourselves. We should never put the Lord to the test. And that is the reason why until we put the precautionary measures in place, to start the mass would be irresponsible. To be testing God. But if we have done all we could, then we can turn to God and we can ask God in faith to protect us all. So we need to cooperate with God's grace, like Queen Esther did. And our prayers will be answered. But where do we get this form of faith in prayer? Again, Queen Esther tells us a very important secret.

And what did she say? I've been taught from my earliest years in the bosom of my family, that you Lord chose Israel out of all the nations. Her faith was the result of her upbringing. Her family, the environment and her community. And it is so important. If people today lack faith,
lack faith in the power of prayer, again what to do? Blame the parents. Blame the elders because they never provided the ambience of prayer to teach their children. If you grow up in an environment when there is no community to support you in prayer, you lose your faith.

That is why it'o important, all of us, I've said it many times and I will say it again.

We need to have a community to support you in prayer. Praying alone is not sufficient. We need to pray with others.
And the community will support you and your faith will be strong, firm and most of all fervent.

