The season of Lent is an invitation to conversion. But what is important in today'cripture readings, is a reminder that conversion must first begin with leaders. All of us assume leadership in some ways. Before we could get those under us to be converted,
leaders must first take the path of conversion. This, we have read in the story of Jonah and the Ninevites, where the king led the people to repentance.
That is why in today'cripture readings, you'll find that Jesus was directing the importance of conversion to the leaders. In the first reading from prophet Isaiah, the rulers of Sodom and Gomorrah were addressed because the leaders were not living a life of justice. They were oppressing the poor,
neglecting the orphaned. And such political leaders eventually brought destruction to their country. So what is important today is that we need to have political and religious leaders living lives of integrity. This is the biggest scandal in the world today. Because we are lacking leaders, whether political or religious leaders, that are truly serving the people and not themselves. This is what Jesus tells us in today's Gospel.

What is true for political leaders is even more tempting for religious leaders.

At least for political leaders, if they are pursuing power, glory and wealth, we can see clearly. Religious leaders, very often we hide under virtuous acts. We appear to be good, to be holy,

but the motives are not what people would want us to have. That is why Jesus said, even religious leaders seek attention, honour and to be greeted, to be respected. Some leaders we know even use the Gospel to enrich themselves and their own powers. The temptation is great, sometimes unconsciously, sometimes consciously. And so this is why it is important for us,

those of us who are leaders, whether religious leaders, lay leaders or just leaders in organisations. Jesus makes it clear that the leader is one who serve.

"The greatest among you must be your servant.
Anyone who exalts himself will be humbled and anyone who humbles himself will be exalted."

We have to ask ourselves what kind of leadership do we exercise? Is this leadership really for the good of those who were under our care, or is it for ourselves? We need to search our motives that truly what we do is for the greater good of the people. The needs of the people must always come first before that of the leaders. It is only when we place the people's needs before ours that we make great leaders. Great leaders are not those who are powerful,

who are influential, those who are wealthy. Great leaders are those who expand their lives in service to their countrymen. And so this is what we are invited to do, the kind of leadership we are called to exercise. And true leadership is not just humble service.
True leadership is not just making ourselves small before others. It is also to take care of those who are small. That is why in the Church, in the Gospel, there is always this preferential option for the poor,
for the marginalised, for the oppressed,

for the orphans, because these are the people that need our help more than others. And this is true for those of you who are parents at home. It is the child that is weakest ,that is the most troublesome, the most naughty, that needs more help than those children of yours that can take care of themselves.

So we need to have this preferential option for those who need our help more.

But it does not mean to say therefore as leaders, we cannot mix with the rich, the powerful, the influential. Because to tell you the truth, and St Teresa of Calcutta always tells us this, do not think the rich are rich. The rich are the poorest. They might be rich in money,
rich in power, rich in wealth, but many of them, they are poor in love, poor in joy,
poor in peace. As I have said many times,

you look at all the TV dramas, all the Korean movies,  all the Chinese movies, it's not about the poor. It's always those big timers, big businessmen, the politically powerful. These are the people having many problems. They look good outside,

but inside empty. And that is why, like Jesus. Jesus reached out to St Matthew and Zacchaeus. And what did Jesus do? He invited the rich to share their wealth with the poor. And so this is what we must do. We must reach out to those people who are rich and powerful because they also looking for the Good News.

Because many of them, because they are in high positions, they have lost touch with humanity. We must help them to encounter God, encounter life, encounter love in the poor. When they serve the poor, when they touch the hearts of the poor, their hearts will also be touched.
Then they begin to understand that life is not about money and power. Life is about feeling with people, feeling for people. That is what gives us real joy in life and it helps us to become really human. If the world is in that situation, it is because many of us have lost the human touch. And so this is what we offer to those who are rich. So at the end of the day,

the poor are served by the rich. They are satisfied. And the rich are served by the poor. In the  final analysis, my dear brothers and sisters, as leaders, we must always remember that we are called to represent God. We are called to make God known and encountered. That's why in the Gospel today, Jesus said, "Don't allow yourselves to be called Rabbi, master,
father, teacher." It's not to say we cannot allow people to address us as such. But remember, if you are a teacher, if you are a father, if you are a Rabbi, you are representing God. And that is why it is important. Jesus reminds us there is only one God, one Teacher, one Father.

And whatever we do, let us always be conscious that we are called to lead others to know Him and to encounter His love.

