Life seems to be rather unfair. And God seems to make a mockery of us all. I'm sure all of us, we do want to experience God's love deeply, so that we have the capacity to love others. Many of us are searching for the love of God. We want a deep radical encounter with Him. But it seems this encounter has never been given to us.

We are desperate.

We are asking the Lord to enter into our lives, but He seems to be far away. We cannot feel His presence. We cannot feel His love. And then when we look around us, we see many people giving beautiful testimonies of how God has touched them, moved them and healed them of sicknesses that were incurable,

the visions that they have seen. And we do not seem to receive all these. We are envious. And worst of all, sometimes there are those people who never even bother to search for God, and out of the blue they encountered God. Why is God doing all these things? Why is God making fun of us? If you are feeling this way, then today the scripture readings invites us to have faith in Him,

to continue to hope against all hope.
Very often, it is in our desperation that we turn to God for help. This is particularly true for Catholics.

Catholics will only turn to Jesus as a last resort. When they are not well,

when things are not going well, they look for all kinds of help, doctors,

medical experts. They go to other religions, new age movement, all kinds of techniques they use. And when these fail, then they say, "Let me come to Jesus" in desperation. My dear brothers and sisters, we need to have faith. We need to surrender ourselves in faith.
And what is even important is this. It's not just having faith in Jesus. It must be a humble, expectant faith. How many of us have the humility to turn to Jesus in time of need? I know many Catholics,

when they are really in need, they dare not even tell their friends to pray for them. They are afraid to let the world know that they too need God, that they too are suffering, that they too are sick. Even when they are suffering from terminal illness, they don't want the world to know. They don't even want their friends to know. Then suddenly, when you open the papers the next morning, the obituary is there and you are surprised.
My dear brothers and sisters, it takes great humility, actually, to ask God and to ask someone to pray over us,

that we too are weak, we too need help.
The inability to ask for help is an obstacle to the grace of God. Why?
Because when God heals you, He is not just healing you. He wants to heal others as well. But if you don't confess that this God has healed you of your illness, then many people will be deprived of this knowledge that Jesus could heal.

We cannot be selfish. If we want healing,

we ask God to heal us. We ask our friends to pray for us, so that we can give glory to God. Indeed, my dear brothers and sisters, it is because we lack this humility, that sometimes God allowed us to go through the wilderness of life. If you are still searching for God, you are still longing for him uch you and even to heal you of your wounds, of your emotional wounds, of your pain, the lack of capacity to love,
then let us remain strong in our faith.

And in our pain, if we don't experience Him now, there is a reason. God has His wisdom. Maybe like the Israelites, we need to prolong that pain, so that we come to terms with ourselves, so that we can understand, so that we can accept,

so that we can see that there is goodness that will come out of the apparent evil that we are going through and the suffering. And we will come out stronger,

better and more faithful.

