Today the Church continues to be harassed by the world. They are not happy with what the Church is proclaiming - the culture of life, the culture of authentic loved that is faithful and self-sacrificing,
the truth and the sanctity,

the indissolubility of marriage between man and woman. The Catholic Church used to be the moral spokesman for the whole world,
simply because when the Holy Father speaks, the world listens.
World leaders, they like to listen to the Holy Father. Many of them agree but do not carry them out because they are afraid to lose the votes of the popular people. In these recent times, the Catholic Church has lost her credibility to be the spokesman for the world in morality, simply because of the scandals that have taken place. The media is against the Church. They will only highlight the scandals of the Church,

not the many good works that the Church has done, in terms of helping the poor, in terms of liberating those who are oppressed, fighting for justice for those who are marginalised. If we want to be defenders of the faith, if we want to be the moral spokesman for the world, what is required for us all? If we lack integrity in our own lives, if we are not honest, people will lose trust and confidence in us. Once we lose our integrity, people begin to be cautious,

skeptical and suspicious. This is understandable. Because once we have lost trust, it takes a long time to regain trust. If we want to stand up for Jesus,

if we want to defend our faith, Jesus invites us to really ask ourselves, do we have faith in Him? Unfortunately for many of us Catholics, I don'hink we have deep faith in Jesus. We come to Jesus only to get things out of Him. We come to Jesus, not because we have faith in Him,
not because we love Him, but because we want Him to answer our prayers, to answer our petitions. But you notice once these petitions are given, when they are answered, most of us would forget about Jesus. We continue with our own lives. We are not grateful. We think that our success is due to all our hard work. And we go after the things of this world. If we know what is eternal life, if we know the greater things of life that Jesus is offering us - peace, love, joy, a clear conscience, a blameless life. These are the things, my dear brothers and sisters,
that make us happy.

Not how successful we are, not how rich we are. All these ill-gotten riches cannot give a person happiness. It is when we live a blameless life. Because our conscience is so clear and there is deep peace in our hearts. If we follow Jesus, then surely my dear brothers and sisters, you will find peace and joy in your life.

