Many of us during this COVID-19 pandemic can be so locked in. We fall into depression and become self-centred. We indulge with food day and night, and we lose our purpose and meaning in life.
That is what it means to be locked in.

Not so much locked in the house, but our hearts are locked in. Then of course there are others who lock others out of their lives, even though when we try to reach out to them during this COVID-19 pandemic. They are so locked in and they locked us out, and we cannot connect with them. We cannot help them. This God that we believe in is a God who is not locked in within Himself. This God is a God of the Trinity, the Father who created this world. And when this world was in a mess because of sin, the Father continued to reach out to humanity by sending us His only Son. That is why God is not a person who is locked in with Himself, just enjoying His own life and love. Not even within the Trinity, but being poured out into the world. God the Father ceases in our pain, in our sorrows and He reaches out. And Jesus of course when he was on this earth in Palestine,

He was always reaching out, never locked in. He was a man for others, always available to those who were sick, those who were hungry, those who were yearning to come to God, those who were seeking for reconciliation. Jesus was a man who was always reaching out as well. Indeed this is the life of someone who is risen. Jesus was one who is always reaching out, even to those who are so locked in. This is the beauty of God's love. The Gospel can never be locked in by anyone. Because Jesus tells us in the Gospel - truth will prevail, life will prevail, love will prevail. Not hatred, not death. So my dear brothers and sisters, that is why the Lord Jesus told the Apostles to be not afraid. Only those people who are afraid,
they are locked in. That is why the religious leaders, they were locked in.
And because they were locked in, they locked out Jesus. And this is what is being done today. The secular world is locking Christianity out of public life.
Why is the world normalising evil as something good? So that the evil, the darkness will not be exposed.

Only those who are in the dark fear the light.
That is why for us Christians, we can never be locked in because what we are doing,
the faith that we are proclaiming, we are not against the world. We love the world.
We want to help the world.

Christianity is not against happiness. We want to give real happiness. We are not against freedom. We want to give authentic freedom. We are not against love but we want authentic love. This is what we are called to do.

That is why my dear brothers and sisters,
if people try to lock us out, don't be locked in. We must still continue to reach out to them. Those who are frightened of the light,
they live in fear. We have no fear. During this Easter season, even as we are locked  our houses, we should never lock people out. During this time when we are locked  our houses, we must continue to reach out. How? You have your technology. Whatever it is, you still can reach out to your friends, reach out to your elderly, reach out to your parents. It's a time too to reach out to your loved ones at home when you are with them, with your children especially.
Play with them. Watch movies with them.

And most of all, it's a time to reach out to God because you can pray now in silence without being distracted. So there are many opportunities, my dear brothers and sisters. Even though we can be locked in, we don't have to be locked out. Those people who are suffering, we can offer a word of consolation and encouragement. Those who are very depressed and feel stifled at home, we must continue to reach out to them and encourage one another. In this way my dear brothers and sisters,
no one can lock us in, even though we are in our houses.

