Many of us Catholics, especially, are diffident in announcing Christ to people, simply because we are afraid of being opposed and challenged in our belief.

More so today when we live in a world that is so secular, when the gods they worship are reason and technology.

So anything that cannot be explained, they would not accept.

And so, when Catholics are challenged in their beliefs, many of them are not able to answer.

Of course some, to save their pride and ego,
would try to give some answers and to refute the arguments of those who are opposed to our faith.

Unfortunately, because many of them lack understanding of Scripture and understanding of the doctrines of the Church, in trying to explain to these people, they only confuse them all the more.

How then can we announce that Jesus is Lord and Saviour?

This is where many Catholics have misunderstood and got it all wrong.

Evangelisation is not catechetics, that is,
to explain about our faith.

Evangelisation is less still apologetics to defend our faith.

Catechetics and apologetics, they come after evangelisation.

This is because when we try to explain to people about our faith and defend our faith,

the truth is this.

Those who have no faith, no matter what you say, they will not believe.

They will find every reason to disprove what we say.

For those who have faith, you don't need any explanation.

And this is the truth.

Precisely, what is theology?

Theology is faith seeking for further understanding.

When you have faith, you want to discover more about you believe in.

It's like  then we get to know the person.

You cannot rationalise yourself into loving a person.

You first must fall in love.

And that is what faith is all about.

This explains why it'o ironical every time when the Church offers spiritual talks, theological talks, seminars, conferences, retreats, who are those who attend all these?

The converted.

Not the unconverted.

Not the nominal Catholics.

Because they don't have time.

Because they're not interested.

Even attending Mass for them is such a boring and tedious activity.

But for those who have fallen in love with Jesus, they want to know more and more.

And they like to listen to more of these talks.

And they are always enthusiastic.

What then is evangelisation?

Evangelisation is simply to bring people to Jesus.

And how do we do it?

By letting them know that Christ lives in us.

He is alive in us.

When people see Jesus alive in us, then they know that Christ is real.

That is why evangelisation is really to testify to the Risen Lord, not with words only, but with our very lives.

And so, the best way to testify to the Risen Lord is to glorify the Lord in our lives.

To evangelise is to let people know what God has done for us in our lives.

Evangelisation is basically giving testimony to Jesus.

Testimonies about what the Lord has done for us.

Great things, small things.

But you see, many Catholics unfortunately
, they do not see miracles in their lives.

Or they cannot see the miracles working in their lives because they are so proud.

Because some of these miracles that the Lord worked in their lives, they rationalise, "Oh,

it's my own hard work, my own ingenuity.

It is because of my talents."

We don't subscribe to God.

Seeing, my dear brothers and sisters, is believing.

When people hear our testimonies, then their hearts will be opened.

There is no question of argument here.

It is whether you are opened to a testimony or you are not.

There is no coercion.

There is no question of arguing who is right and who is wrong.

And the second way to announce and to glorify the Lord in our lives, of course, is by the way we live.

We don't fight with people.

We don't argue with people.

That is not the way of evangelisation.

That is bad news.

All we need to do is to speak clearly, with a right conscience, with respect.

Be courteous.

And even if we are misunderstood, even is people are nasty to us, love will win over our enemies.

But if there is no love, then of course we will put people off.

People cannot believe that Christ is in us.

Because when they see us as forgiving people,
patient people and understanding people, they will come to faith.

How can we give glory to God with the kind of conviction, unless we have encountered the Risen Lord ourselves?

And how do we encounter the Risen Lord?

Without the Holy Spirit, we cannot see the Risen Christ.

That is why the Holy Spirit leads us to Jesus,
reveals Jesus to us and makes us conscience of His presence.

Those of us who have not encountered Jesus personally, this is where the real problem comes.

Our faith is a cerebral faith.It's a doctrinal faith.

It is not rooted in personal conviction because we don't have a personal relationship with the Lord.

Have you encountered the Risen Lord in your own life?

We cannot evangelise others unless we are first evangelised.

And this happens especially when we are down and out.

When you are suffering from a failed relationship,
when you are going through very difficult times, when you are out of job, when you are going through a crisis, an incurable illness,

and then the Lord comes to heal you.

It is beyond imagination.

And I can tell you honestly, those people,
when they can no longer depend on themselves,

because they thought they were rich and powerful,
when the Lord brings them down, they will crawl back to God.

And when the Lord heals them, they'll give their whole lives to Jesus.

They'll give everything to Jesus because now they know before God, we are nobody.

Only God can heal.

Only God is the Mighty One.

That is why, you know, the world precisely because of secularisation, the word does not know God.

They never hear testimonies of God.

Because in the secular world, we are not allowed to talk about God.

You see the trick of the evil one.

To make secularism the law of the day.

We cannot talk about God in public space.

Eventually, those who really are searching for God, nobody tells them.

Nobody testifies to them.

And because they do not know God, they fall into depression.

They become desperate.

And some of them, they kill themselves.

That is what the devil wants.

To kill yourself.

My dear brothers and sisters, it is very important,
we must first encounter the Lord.

And this is basically our real challenge.

We want to sacramentalise our people without first evangelising them.

We are more concerned whether a young person has received his First Communion , his confession,

his Confirmation.

Or even a young person, whether he has gone through the nine months of RCIA lessons before we baptise or confirm them.

But we never ask, have they encountered Jesus?

Have they have deep faith in Jesus?

We just give them the sacraments since they have finished the course.

Sacraments without faith are totally ineffective.

It requires personal faith.

That is why we have sacramentalise so many of our Catholics, our young people.

And many of them have left the Church after their Confirmation.

It shows what?

They have never been evangelised.

They have never even been brought to Jesus.

Because they never encountered the Holy Spirit.

We need to renew our love for the Holy Spirit.

We need to be docile.

Welcome the Holy Spirit.

Pray that you will encounter the Holy Spirit in a very deep and personal way.

So that when Pentecost comes, you will become alive.

And you will be fired with the love of the Holy Spirit and the power to evangelise.

