We all have our fears in life.

Fear is a natural emotion in the face of danger, death, illness or when our enemies want to hurt us.

It is something that is part of being human.

Even Jesus was fearful at the Garden of Gethsemane when He was facing His passion.

Those are natural fears.

But there is another kind of fear. This is chronic fear.

This fear is irrational, unreasonable.

This fear comes because of our past experiences.

It is a psychological fear,

a fear that came from past traumas in our lives that we have suffered,

especially when re young/

Physically abused, emotionally abused.

Sometimes they happen because of accidents in life.

So that is why many of us, we suffer from all kinds of phobias.

And so most of the phobias that we have are the result of unhealed traumas.

That is why these kind of fears cripple us, paralyse us from moving forward.

They continue to have a hold over us and we are afraid of adventures.

The truth is, fear is an emotion that is neutral. In fact,
fear can be something positive, not necessarily negative.

It is because of fear that we know how to prepare ourselves, that we become more alert to the potential enemies in our life.

But those fears that cripple us, that make us unable to live freely, to be ourselves, to be the person that God has made us to be, because we are timid,

because we are fearful,

these kind of fears destroy us.

What is the cause of fear?

The reason why we are fearful is simply because men have lost fear of God,

no reverence for God,

rejecting God in their lives. This is the real reason, the root cause of all other fears.

Because when we no longer fear God,

all these other fears will surface.

The world has misled us.

Atheistic philosophers, secularists,

they all say that the reason why we are not happy in life, it is because man believe in God. God is the one that causes us to be miserable. God takes away our freedom.

Because of God, we are fearful of judgement. We are fearful of condemnation.

We are fearful of punishment. All the atheistic philosophers say the way to find true freedom and true joy,

according to them, is to remove God from our lives. When God is dead, they say, man will live.

My dear brothers and sisters, look at the consequences. When you remove God,

there is no truth. There is no morality.
There is no right, no wrong,

and you leave a life without wisdom.

When you remove God from your life,
what is your greatest fear now? Fear of death.

Because if there is no God, but death is inevitable, no one can run away from death.

That is why the world fears most is death, when Jesus said what you should fear most is God, not death.

The world says when you are dead, you are finished. You have only one life. That is why today the world is promoting this kind of philosophy. YOLO - "You Only Live Once".

FOMO - "Fear Of Missing Out", because you have only one life. There is no life after death. So you better live this life to the fullest. Enjoy, take everything out of this world. Because you only live once.

When you fear death, this is what we do,
we think only of ourselves.

When you fear death,

at the end, your greatest fear becomes fear of enemies now. Every man is your enemy because every man is your competitor. You want to have the biggest share of the pie. And you get angry because this fellow is richer than you.
This fellow can go for beautiful holidays,

lavish holidays, I cannot. Oh, now you are jealous. Now you are resentful.

And what do you do? You kill, you rob, you steal,

you destroy.

You look at the world today. The powerful nations are thinking about themselves. We are actually on the age of globalisation, but they say, "Oh, my country first. My people first. We must have all the riches. We must be the most powerful militarily, economically, financially.
All the resources, they belong to us.

The rest of the world, they can suffer.

Why all this competition among nations,
when actually we are all one?

That's why the world becomes our enemy.

So what is the cause of death, the fear of death? What is the cause? It is sin.

It is sin that causes us to die, not just biologically, but spiritually.

Because of selfishness, of greed, of anger, hatred. Even you can have all the things of this world, you are not happy.

When you have no control over your passion, over your body, you will destroy your body.

Isn't it true? St Paul says, sin brings death. "The wages of sin", St Paul tells us, "is death."

So it is not God who brings death. It is our sins. God wants us to live. God wants us to be free. Now you are no more free. Because the world is your enemy.

Your fellow man is your enemy. Death is your enemy.

You are leaving a most fearful life.

How could we accuse God as the one who has taken away our freedom and our joy?

So long as you go against the law of nature, nature's law will punish you.

If God gives us the laws, it is just to tell us, now this is something that you are doing which is going to hurt you, hurt your body, hurt your soul, hurt your brothers and sisters. So don't do it.

So the laws are actually meant to guide us.

The laws are not meant to punish us.

We are not in a position to actually overcome the law.

That is why you notice it is so ironical that the laws today in the world,
formulated by man,

is not to protect man from God,
but to protect man from his fellow man.

This is the greatest irony. Laws have been formulated to protect you against your fellow man, in case they steal, in case they rob, in case they violate your body.

And yet, people still disobey the laws.
Because they are not capable. Just because you know the law, does not mean to say you observe the law. In fact, the world is saying, "Do everything, but don't get caught."

Only Jesus can help us to overcome fear of death.

God is the one who will take vengeance for us. God is the one who gives us life. So my dear brothers and sisters,
don'rust in the world. The world is deceiving you. Fear God. And you will fear the laws, not a kind of slavish fear,

but because you are wise, because the laws will set you free. God's love will give us the capacity to live a life of wisdom and grace.

