Today, we celebrate the memorial of the Immaculate Heart of Mary.

This Feast follows the Feast of The Most Sacred Heart of Jesus,

which we celebrated yesterday. These two Feasts are closely related, but they are not exactly the same.

The Feast of the Sacred Heart,

the focus was on the love of God incarnated in Jesus. When we celebrate the Feast of the Sacred Heart, we are saying Jesus as a man, reveals for us the divine love of God.

The Immaculate Heart that we celebrate, the focus is different. Our focus is on how Mary responded so completely to the love of God in her life. This is what we are celebrating. So the focus is on Mary's response. She's exemplar of how our heart,

like hers, should be aligned with the heart of Jesus, so that we too can complete the mission that we are called to share with our Lord, as Mary did. And so, this morning, to contemplate on the Immaculate Heart means simply to ask ourselves,

how Mary respond?

What was her secret of allowing the heart of Jesus to beat in her heart? Two hearts beating together.

Firstly, simply because Mary as the Feast commemorates,

is the Immaculate one.

In other words, Mary was immaculately conceived. She was exempted from original sin, saved by our Lord by prevention.
And because Mary was free from original sin, she did not suffer the effects of original sin, which brings about the dullness of the mind, weakness of the will. And so in that sense, because Mary was immaculately conceived, she could give a full response to the Lord much easier than us.

But this did not mean that Mary was not human.
She was completely human. To be sinless,

actually, is to be inhuman. Sometimes we think,

to be human means to sin. Yes, if that is a fallen human nature.

But the true human nature like the one Jesus had, is without sin.
It is because of sin, because we have a fallen nature, that is why we cannot see the will of God clearly. For Mary,

she could give that response, but it was a human response to a divine will. We must understand that human response, therefore,
would also demand of Mary all that we will have to go through in the human response.

It was made with uncertainties about the future, the sufferings ahead of her.

She too had to make that response.

And therefore, it is important for us to realise being immaculate did not mean that the response of Mary to God's will was easier than ours. She saw it clearly,

that is true. For most of us, we are confused about the will of God. For Mary,

she knew it was God's will. But for Mary, she had to say "yes". A human "yes"

to a divine call.

And most of all,

it's also important to understand. To say that she was immaculately conceived,

does not mean to say that she did not have faith. She also requires faith like us. She did not have a beatific vision. She too had to respond in faith.

The plan of God unfolded for her.

Like in today's Gospel, she couldn't understand. When Jesus said to her, "Why are you looking for me? I should be in my Father's house. And she was puzzled. She couldn't understand. And so it is important, therefore, that Mary surrendered in faith. When the angel told her, she will conceive Jesus in her womb by the power of the Holy Spirit, in faith she said, "Yes. Behold the handmaid of the Lord."

So being Immaculately did not exam her from making the act of faith. That is why St Augustine said, before Mary conceived Jesus in her womb, she conceived Jesus in faith. That is why Mary is indeed the most worthy person to be the mother of Jesus.

Because of her faith,

because of her perfect response to God's call. And Mary as a mother,
looked after Jesus, as we have read in today's Gospel. For thirty years of His life,

Jesus was with Mary. Thirty years is a long time.

Today, many young people at the age of twenty would have left the family and start their own family, the moment they enter into college or university. So thirty years with Mary. And Mary instructing Jesus on the traditions of the Father, on how to pray the Psalms, read the scriptures. So certainly, Mary was very much a real mother, nurturing Jesus as He grew up.

That's the reason why Mary could go through with Jesus,

saying "yes" at every moment of her life.
From the moment she conceived Jesus, to the raising up of Jesus as a child,
to His passion, to His death,

she was one with Jesus.

And of course, all these could not be possible. Again in faith, she was always docile to the Holy Spirit.

That is the reason why you would have remembered,

the Feast of Mary the Mother of the Church was celebrated immediately after Pentecost.

The same Holy Spirit that conceived Jesus in the womb was the same Holy Spirit that Mary waited with the Apostles when the Church was born.

Both occasions, is the birth of Jesus and the birth of the Church. And the Holy Spirit was there. And Mary was always receptive. That is why her response was so perfect, so beautiful. As seen in her own life,

Mary always doing the will of God.

That is what she is teaching us. Doing God's will comes before everything else.
"Behold the handmaid of the Lord."

At Cana in Galilee,

"Do whatever he tells you."

For Mary she knew there is no way to happiness in life, there is no way to peace, unless we do God's will.

God's will must always be above everything else. That is why it'o important for us always to ask, "What is your will, oh Lord?" Don't worry about the fears. Don't worry about the anxieties, the future. That is not for us to worry. That is for God to take care.
If you start imagining, "oh, can I do it?"

Of course if Mary start imagining, "What will happen if I say yes, and people knew that I was pregnant by the Holy Spirit,
who will believe me?" etc, and so on. Do you think she would say yes? No, I don'hink so.

Obedience to God's will. And sometimes God's will we don't understand that it's true also.

Again, we are told, Mary,

two or three times in the Gospel. We are told that Mary kept all these things in her heart. When the shepherds came to adore Jesus at Bethlehem, she also couldn't understand.

And she kept all these things in her heart.
When Simeon prophesied, she didn't understand. What do you mean? A sword will pierce through her heart? She didn't fully understand. But she kept all these things in her heart. We are always pondering,

allowing God to take flesh in us.
That is what Mary did. That is why Mary is so beautiful. Not only she has taught us to love God,

but to love man with purity.

Sometimes when you look at Mary,

the way she served God In her fellow men,

not only with charity, but in selflessness. She went to visit Elizabeth after being informed that she was the mother of God. It was not something, she could have said to herself, "I am the mother of God. Why should I go and visit my cousin?" But her first though was Elizabeth needed help.
Totally selfless. No big show, no big expectation. When Elizabeth praised her, she gave glory to God. And then again at Cana in Galilee, so beautiful. She was so sensitive. The wedding couple,

they had no wine. She didn't make a great announcement, "I'm the one, you know, who has asked my son to help you.
If not, you will be embarrassed." No,

quietly. She told the steward,
"Do whatever Jesus tells you. Fill up the jars."

She didn't receive any credit. She didn't expect any credit. And she didn't want people to know as well. There was no need for people to know how good she was, how charitable, how powerful her prayer was. And she didn't need people to know. Quietly, she did it. So long as the wedding couple were taken care of. My dear brothers and sisters, this is what we are called to reflect. To ponder on the heart of Mary, so that the heart of Mary will bring us to the heart of Jesus. And that is what Mary appeared to the three seers at Fatima, "I'm the Immaculate Heart. Pray the rosary daily. Do penance. Receive the Eucharist. And stay close to Jesus.

