For many of us, we think, especially those of you who are parents, that your child belongs to you. Your child is to serve you for the rest of his or her life.

Your child is supposed to care for you.
It's a kind of investment that we think we have placed on our children. And that is why some parents, they are only concerned about their children doing well in their studies, getting a good job, a good pay,

so that the parents can live a luxurious life happily ever after, so that their children can provide them a very comfortable life. My dear brothers and sisters, this is where you are wrong. Your child does not belong to you. Your child belongs to God. You are just a trustee. You are just there to look after this child and to bring this child up according to the plans that God has for him or for her.

A person's life is not his own.

That is what is confusing the world.
People say, "This is my life. I do what I want with it. I have full authority over my life. If I don't like to live,

I just kill myself. After all, it's my life."
Every life comes from God. We are not entitled to life. We are not the author of our lives. It is God who has given us life. It is God who will take back that life.

And so because the life belongs to God,

we find our fulfilment, we find our happiness only when we live the life that God has meant for us. This is what self-realisation and fulfilment is all about. Again, many people today are mistaken. They are saying, "I must have a fulfilled life." What is fulfilment?
Fulfilment implies self-realisation.

That means to become the person that we are called to be. No less. Fulfilment doesn't mean just enjoying life. That is not fulfilment. Fulfilment is when we truly live out all the potentials, all the charisms, all the talents that the Lord has given to us.. No man can find fulfilment unless he lives for others, unless he becomes a servant for humanity. It is only when we live out all our potentials, use whatever we have and expand ourselves for humanity, that we find life. And this was certainly the case of John the Baptist. He knew that his vocation was to be the forerunner for the Messiah, to proclaim a baptism of repentance for the people of Israel, so that when the Messiah comes, they could welcome Him. John the Baptist was conscious of his role. He was only the forerunner. He was not the Messiah. And he accepted the position. He did not envy his cousin, Jesus, for being the Messiah. He was simply contented to be what he was called to be, to assume the role that he has been given. He did not seek to be other than what he was called. That is why he lived a life that is truly fulfilling. And he gave himself completely to what he was called. He preached the Word of God without fear,
welcome or unwelcome. That was his task. He came to serve. He lived a life of simplicity. He lived in the wilderness. And that is why he was highly respected. He was a credible prophet of God. And most of all, he knew he was called to be a light to the nations, to bring everyone to Jesus, to reveal Jesus as the Messiah to the people. And his disciples left John the Baptist for Jesus. You tell me which leader would do that. Leaders, they always want to control their disciples.

They are not going to ask their disciples to go and join someone else. Most leaders are insecure. But here we have John the Baptist, "Look. This is the Lamb of God. Go. Follow him." My dear brothers and sisters, if we want to find life today, we need first and foremost to ask ourselves, what is God's plan for us? We need to be clear of our role in life. Otherwise, we cannot live it out completely. We must discern our vocation. Parents must help their children to discern their vocation. Not whether you'll be a rich man, whether you'll be involved in politics, or whether you'll be a lawyer, whether a doctor. That is immaterial.

What is the Lord calling him to do? If you respond to that call, you can be sure, he will be truly happy and fulfilled.

