In today's Gospel, we have the story, the incident where St Peter just confessed that Jesus was the Christ, the Son of the Living God. And then immediately, the Lord told Peter that He would be put to death. He would be rejected by the chief priests and the elders. But Peter could not accept it because the Messiah that Peter and the Apostles were thinking about was a triumphant Messiah, not a suffering Messiah. And so that was how St Peter tried to tempt Jesus away from entering into His passion, His death. And yet it is important for us to remember that the way of God is not man's way. And this is again brought out in today's first reading. St James speaks about how we treat the rich and the poor. We tend to discriminate those who are rich and those who are poor. This is a very natural thing even for us who are supposedly Christians and Catholics. We tend to give respect to those who are respectable, those who dress well, those who are beautiful, those who are rich,

those who are talented. We like to speak to people who are intelligent and these are the people that lcome and we enjoy their company. But those people who give us problems, they always need help and they are always a burden to us, we want to stay away from them. So at the end of the day, whether we like it or not, we help those people who benefit us. Unless you are of benefit to me then I'm not too available for you. This is the fact of life. That's how the way we treat people.
And also even within the Church.

For us as Church leaders, we always have this difficulty. We have many people who are very active in church.

Church leaders who have given their time,
their resources, their talents. They contribute much to the Church but they also expect privileges, special seats,

seats of honour. And if we don't give to them,

you're afraid that they'll be slighted and then they will stop serving the Church and they will stop giving to the Church. So for fear that we will lose them because they expect to be recognised, they expect to receive these privileges, then we compromise our principles.

Again, this is the challenge for us as Christians. How do we really look at the world, look at people the way Jesus would look at us and how God looks at us?

In the responsorial psalm, we are told, "This poor man called, the Lord heard him." The Lord loves the poor. The Lord has special preference for the poor. In fact, the Gospel is basically a preferential option for the poor. Because who are the poor? The poor are not just the financially poor. All of us are poor.

That's why the Gospel is essentially grace. Which means to say, none of us deserve to have what we have. Everything we have comes from God. Your talents, your resources, your health, everything comes from Him. So in truth, we have nothing to boast about. We have nothing to claim for our credit. Whatever we have comes from Him. And unless we are aware of this, then we think highly of ourselves. Then we think that we deserve certain privileges and people therefore should be rewarding us, especially for the favours that we have rendered and the services as well.

But if we realise that the Gospel is essentially grace and everything is the grace of God, then we become grateful. Grateful for what we have. Grateful that all that we have today belongs to Him. And so because we are grateful then become generous. When we are grateful, we realise that all these things that the Lord has blessed us, they are meant to bless others. And so we are called to be good stewards at the end of the day. And we have nothing to claim for as our credit. Unless God has blessed us,
we can bless no one. And that is why St James today tells us, "Remember to keep the supreme law of Scripture. You must love your neighbour as yourself. But as soon as you make distinctions between classes of people, you are committing sin under condemnation of breaking the law." And what is also important about helping the poor is precisely because those of us who are rich, if we think that the poor owes us something because we have helped people, then we are wrong.
Because those of us who are rich and when we help the poor, we realise actually the poor have so much to teach us about faith, about simplicity of life,
about gratitude, about joy. When we reach out to those who are really poor and we see the joy in their faces,

their gratitude and happy for the little things that they receive, then we begin to look at our own lives. How much we have taken our lives for granted, our luxuries for granted. And that also teach us actually to live a simple life,

to be contented with what we have and to live a life of joy and freedom. And that is what the poor, St James tells us,
that's why they are rich in faith. He said, "My dear brothers, it was those who are poor according to the world that God chose to be rich in faith and to be heirs to the Kingdom."

For those of us who are rich and we are wealthy and we have plenty of resources and we have positions in life,
whether you are conscious or not, we tend to depend more on ourselves, more on our strengths,

more on our resources. Our faith in God is not really faith. That is a back up. We are happy with what we have, but it's good to have faith. In case we die, we will have a place to go. But we don't really need Him because we can manage ourselves. We have enough money,
our life is going well, we have a good job.

Until one day when you are struck with a terminal illness then God is all important because doctors cannot heal you. So people who are rich tend to rely on themselves. Those who are poor, they have no one to depend on. They have only God.

And that's why their faith is rich.
However, having said this, we have to also realise that not all the poor have faith. Not all the poor people are very easy to deal with. Many of them are also greedy.

Many of them are insecure, which is also true. And not to say all the rich people therefore are bad. Today, when we read the Gospel, I suppose those of you who are rich, you must feel a bit insulted. Because St James says, "Can't you see that the rich people, they are the ones who bring you to court. They are the ones who cause you problems,
cause your honourable name to be destroyed..." and so on. And that is not true as well. Not all rich people are like that. There many rich people who are very humble,
who are very modest, who don't seek recognition.

So at the end of the day, I think the question is how do we look at people and how do we see them the way God wants us to look at them? Because at the end of the day, all of us must remember that we are children of God. And we are called therefore to love everyone as the Lord has asked of us. Amen.

