The greatest consequence of secularism is absolutist moral relativism.

This phrase itself is a contradiction.
Because first and foremost, relativism does not know morality. Because for them,
everything is according to one's preference or one's context. There is no right, there is no wrong. And secondly,

relativism means that everything is relative. There is no absolute but they claim that moral relativism is absolute.
That is why this itself is a contradiction. This is the situation of the world today. Secularism has made man his own God.
He becomes the norm of everything that is right or wrong.
He has supplanted the place of God.

Man thinks he has all the answers. He is so intelligent. He knows what is right,

what is good. He does not need God. Only when man meets death, then he realises he is a finite being after all. But my dear brothers and sisters, the greater danger of relativism is that moral relativism masquerades evil as good. If you look at the trends of the world today,
how does relativism promotes itself?

Relativism promotes abortion in the name of one's right over one's body. We can do what we want with our body. Relativism promotes promiscuity in the name of freedom.

Relativism promotes drug taking in the name of your preferred choice. Relativism promotes pornography in the name of a discerning mind. Relativism promotes euthanasia in the name of compassion for those who are suffering. Relativism promotes surrogate motherhood, IVF in the name of one's right to have a child.

But have we really asked ourselves, the decisions that we take, the values that we promote, are they really truly good for humanity? Are we promoting selflessness or selfishness? Are we promoting individualism at the expense of our obligation to the larger community? Have we thought of the family that we are destroying? All these values that the world is promoting, ask yourself, have our families be made stronger? Marriages more solid? People are more giving, more generous, more caring for the society? Are they taking care of the climate, of the world? If we are short-sighted, our values are pragmatic because it responds to the time now without having a thought for the future of humanity and creation, we will regret one day because we will destroy humanity when society breaks apart. Because everyone is me first, others second. It is about my interest, not the interest of the bigger community. Masquerading evil as good is the most insidious form of deception.

And that is what relativism is all about. Is this something new? It is not new at all.

Christianity has always been persecuted right at the very beginning until today.

The world does not like the Gospel because we are promoting values that contradict the values of the world. That is why you notice, Christianity is always under attack by the world because the values we promote will deprive them of their businesses, especially those who are making money from immoral activities.

And it is for this reason, among all the Christian churches, the Catholic Church is the one that is always under attack.
That is why they expose of the scandals of the Church. But it is true. The scandals were real. But the truth that the Church has taught remains true, even if those who profess them have not been true to themselves. And so we have lost the moral authority. And that is what the world wants, so that no one has the moral authority in the world anymore, so that they can do what they want. The world likes to attack Christianity. Do you know why? Because we do not fight back. We are very forgiving. We don'ake up violence to attack people who attacked us. We just say, "I forgive you". We are loving people.

That is why easy to attack Christians.
But my dear friends, the Lord tells us that we will be persecuted. So it is not going to be something new for us.

Jesus will send us the Holy Spirit, the Advocate. He will defend us and He will help us to stand up for the truth of the Gospel. No human being can chain the Gospel. We do not have to be discouraged,
even when the world opposes us. We need to be strong but we need to be connected again with the Holy Spirit. If the Holy Spirit is in you, you will have the wisdom, you will have the words to speak the truth of the Gospel,
and the Holy Spirit will protect you.

And even if you are suffering, the Holy Spirit will give you the strength to endure.

Let us continue to testify to the Gospel that the Lord has entrusted to us.

